Disclosure 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related

impacts
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. For the organization’s significant actual and potential waste-related impacts, a
description of:
i. the inputs, activities, and outputs that lead or could lead to these impacts;
ii. whether these impacts relate to waste generated in the organization’s own
activities or to waste generated upstream or downstream in its value chain.
1.2 The reporting organization should report a process flow of inputs, activities, and outputs
RECOMMENDATIONS
that lead or could lead to significant waste-related impacts.
Background
GUIDANCE
The quantity, type, and quality of waste generated by an organization is a consequence of the
activities involved in the production of its products and services (e.g., extraction, processing,
procurement of materials, product or service design, production, distribution) and their
subsequent consumption. An assessment of how materials move into, through, and out of the
organization can help understand where in the organization’s value chain these materials
eventually become waste. This provides a holistic overview of waste generation and its causes,
which in turn can support the organization in identifying opportunities for waste prevention and
for adopting circularity measures. In this way, the organization can go beyond mitigating and
remediating negative impacts once waste has been generated and move towards managing
waste as a resource.
Guidance for Disclosure 306-1
When reporting on this disclosure, the organization can specify the types of inputs and outputs.
The types of inputs and outputs can include raw materials, process and manufacturing
materials, leaks and losses, waste, by-products, products, or packaging.
The organization can assess and report whether inputs, activities, and outputs lead or could
lead to significant waste-related impacts using the following criteria:
• Quantity of inputs used to produce the organization’s products or services, which will
become waste after they are used for production.
• Quantity of waste outputs generated in the organization’s own activities, or quantity of outputs
it provides to entities downstream that will eventually become waste when they reach their
end of life.
• Hazardous characteristics of inputs and outputs.
• Properties of input materials or design characteristics of outputs that limit or prevent their
recovery or limit the length of their life.
• Known potential negative threats associated with specific materials when they are
discarded. For example, the potential threat of marine pollution resulting from leakage of
discarded plastic packaging into waterbodies.
• Types of activities that lead to significant quantities of waste generation or to generation of
hazardous waste.
The organization is required to report on inputs that it receives from entities upstream in its value
chain, as well as outputs it provides to entities downstream in its value chain. For example, if an
organization procures components with hazardous characteristics from a supplier and uses
these in a product that will continue to carry these components and their hazardous
characteristics, the organization is required to report these components under inputs that lead
or could lead to significant waste-related impacts. Similarly, if an organization sells to
consumers products that generate large quantities of packaging waste, it is required to report
this packaging under outputs that lead or could lead to significant waste-related impacts.
If the organization has identified many inputs and outputs or many activities that lead or could
lead to significant waste-related impacts, it may group these by:
• product or service category that the inputs and outputs relate to;
• business units or facilities that procure the inputs, or whose activities produce the outputs;
9 GRI 306: Waste 2020
• categories of upstream and downstream activities that produce the outputs (for examples of
upstream and downstream categories, see the guidance for Disclosure 302-2 in GRI 302:
Energy 2016).
Guidance for clause 1.2
A process flow is a tool to visualize the information required to be reported under Disclosure
306-1. A graphic illustration of the process flow can help the organization and its stakeholders
understand how inputs and outputs move through the organization’s own activities as well as
through the activities of entities upstream and downstream in its value chain. It shows where
waste is generated in the value chain or where outputs become waste.
The organization can also use the process flow to illustrate information that is required under
other disclosures of this Standard, such as:
• actions taken to prevent waste generation (Disclosure 306-2);
• composition of waste generated (Disclosure 306-3);
• recovery operations used to divert waste from disposal (Disclosure 306-4);
• disposal operations (Disclosure 306-5).
The organization can include estimates of the weight of inputs and the weight of outputs in
metric tons or the ratio of inputs to outputs.
For examples of process flow illustrations, see the Appendix.
10 GRI 306: Waste 2020