Disclosure 2-19 Remuneration policies

The organization shall:
REQUIREMENTS
a. describe the remuneration policies for members of the highest governance body and
senior executives, including:
i. fixed pay and variable pay;
ii. sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments;
iii. termination payments;
iv. clawbacks;
v. retirement benefits;
b. describe how the remuneration policies for members of the highest governance body
and senior executives relate to their objectives and performance in relation to the
management of the organization’s impacts on the economy, environment, and people.
Guidance to 2-19-a-i
GUIDANCE
Fixed pay and variable pay can include performance-based pay, equity-based pay, bonuses, and
deferred and vested shares.
If the organization uses performance-based pay, it should describe how remuneration for senior
executives is designed to reward long-term performance.
Guidance to 2-19-a-iii
Termination payments are all payments and benefits given to a departing member of the
highest governance body or senior executive whose appointment is terminated. Termination
payments extend beyond monetary payments, from transferring property to automatic or
accelerated vesting of incentives.
If the organization provides termination payments, it should explain whether:
• notice periods for highest governance body members and senior executives are different
from those for other employees;
• termination payments for highest governance body members and senior executives are
different from those for other employees;
• departing highest governance body members and senior executives receive payments other
than those related to the notice period;
• any mitigation clauses are included in the termination arrangements.
Guidance to 2-19-a-iv
Clawbacks are repayments of previously received compensation that a highest governance
body member or senior executive is required to make to their employer if certain conditions of
employment or goals are not met.
Guidance to 2-19-a-v
The organization should report the differences between the retirement benefit schemes and the
contribution rates for the highest governance body members, senior executives, and all other
employees.
31 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021