Disclosure 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 49

Glossary 51
Bibliography 56
5 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
Introduction
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures for organizations to provide information about their reporting
practices; activities and workers; governance; strategy, policies, and practices; and stakeholder engagement. This
information gives insight into the profile and scale of organizations and provides a context for understanding their
impacts.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains five disclosures, which provide information about the organization, its sustainability reporting
practices, and the entities included in its sustainability reporting.
• Section 2 contains three disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s activities, employees,
and other workers.
• Section 3 contains thirteen disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s governance structure,
composition, roles, and remuneration.
• Section 4 contains seven disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s sustainable
development strategy and its policies and practices for responsible business conduct.
• Section 5 contains two disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s stakeholder engagement
practices and how it engages in collective bargaining with employees.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing
this Standard, as well as resources that the organization can consult.
The rest of the Introduction section provides an overview of the system of GRI Standards and further information on
using this Standard.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
6 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report all disclosures in this Standard.