Disclosure 2-23 Policy commitments

The organization shall:
REQUIREMENTS
a. describe its policy commitments for responsible business conduct, including:
i. the authoritative intergovernmental instruments that the commitments reference;
ii. whether the commitments stipulate conducting due diligence;
iii. whether the commitments stipulate applying the precautionary principle;
iv. whether the commitments stipulate respecting human rights;
b. describe its specific policy commitment to respect human rights, including:
i. the internationally recognized human rights that the commitment covers;
ii. the categories of stakeholders, including at-risk or vulnerable groups, that the
organization gives particular attention to in the commitment;
c. provide links to the policy commitments if publicly available, or, if the policy
commitments are not publicly available, explain the reason for this;
d. report the level at which each of the policy commitments was approved within the
organization, including whether this is the most senior level;
e. report the extent to which the policy commitments apply to the organization’s activities
and to its business relationships;
f. describe how the policy commitments are communicated to workers, business
partners, and other relevant parties.
This disclosure covers the organization’s policy commitments for responsible business
GUIDANCE
conduct, including the commitment to respect human rights. These commitments can be set out
in a stand-alone policy document or be included within one or more other policy documents,
such as codes of conduct.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises [12], the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business
Conduct [11], and the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human
Rights [14] set out expectations for organizations in relation to these policy commitments.
Guidance to 2-23-a
The organization should report the expectations, values, principles, and norms of behavior set
out in the policy commitments.
The organization can also report how the policy commitments were developed, including the
internal and external expertise that informed the policy commitments.
Guidance to 2-23-a-i
See the Bibliography for a list of authoritative intergovernmental instruments for responsible
business conduct.
The organization can also make a reference to other standards or initiatives that it participates
in.
Guidance to 2-23-a-iii
The precautionary principle is set out in Principle 15 of the UN Rio Declaration on Environment
and Development [18]. It states: ‘Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack
of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to
prevent environmental degradation.’
The precautionary principle means taking early action to prevent and mitigate potential
negative impacts in situations where conclusive scientific understanding or evidence is lacking,
but there is sufficient reason to expect serious or irreversible damage.
While the precautionary principle is most often associated with the protection of the
environment, it can be applied to other areas, such as health and safety. The organization can
36 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
describe the areas where it applies the precautionary principle.
The application of the precautionary principle can be reported under 3-3-d-i in GRI 3: Material
Topics 2021, as part of the organization’s actions to prevent or mitigate potential negative
impacts for each material topic.
Guidance to 2-23-b-i
Human rights are rights inherent to all human beings and are all interrelated, interdependent,
and indivisible.
The internationally recognized human rights include, at a minimum, the rights set out in
the UN International Bill of Human Rights [15] and the principles concerning fundamental rights
set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles
and Rights at Work [5]. The UN International Bill of Human Rights consists of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural
Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and its two Optional
Protocols.
Other UN instruments elaborate further on the rights of indigenous peoples; women; national or
ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities; children; persons with disabilities; and migrant
workers and their families. There are also standards of international humanitarian law that apply
in situations of armed conflict, such as the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)
Geneva Conventions of 1949 [1].2
At the regional level, binding treaties as well as non-binding instruments provide region-specific
frameworks for human rights.3
If the policy commitment covers all internationally recognized human rights, a brief statement of
this fact is sufficient to comply with the requirement. The organization can also state if the policy
commitment references certain rights that require particular attention. For example, an
organization can state that its policy commitment covers all internationally recognized human
rights, and also references the rights to privacy and freedom of expression in particular because
the organization has identified that its activities have an impact on these rights.
If the policy commitment covers only some internationally recognized human rights, the
organization is required to state the rights that are covered. It can explain why the policy
commitment is limited to these rights.
Guidance to 2-23-b-ii
Categories of stakeholders that the organization gives particular attention to can include
consumers, customers, employees and other workers, and local communities. They can also
include individuals belonging to groups or populations that are considered to be at risk or
vulnerable groups, such as children; human rights defenders; indigenous peoples; migrant
workers and their families; national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities; persons who
might be discriminated against based on their sexual orientation, gender identity, gender
expression, or sex characteristics; persons with disabilities; or women.
For example, a bank may give particular attention in its policy commitment to avoid
discriminating against specific categories of customers, or a mining organization may give
particular attention to avoid infringing on the rights of indigenous peoples.
Guidance to 2-23-d
The most senior level may differ between organizations. For example, the most senior level in
an organization could be the highest governance body (e.g., the board) or the most senior
executive (e.g., chief executive officer).
The organization can also report the dates of approval and adoption of the policy commitments,
and how frequently the commitments are reviewed.
2 See the Office of the Unit ed Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights’ non-exhaustive list of universal human rights instruments,
https://www.ohchr.org/EN/ProfessionalInterest/Pages/UniversalHumanRightsInstruments.aspx, accessed on 7 May 2021.
3 See the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights' list of regional human rights treaties,
https://www.ohchr.org/en/issues/escr/pages/regionalhrtreaties.aspx, accessed on 7 May 2021.
37 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
Guidance to 2-23-e
If the policy commitments apply to all of the organization’s activities and business
relationships equally, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient to comply with the requirement.
If the policy commitments apply to only some of the organization’s activities (e.g., they apply only
to entities located in certain countries or to certain subsidiaries), the organization should report
which activities the commitments apply to. It can also explain why the commitments are limited
to these activities.
If the policy commitments apply to only some of the organization’s business relationships, the
organization should specify the types of business relationships the commitments apply to (e.g.,
distributors, franchisees, joint ventures, suppliers). It can also explain why the commitments are
limited to these business relationships. The organization should also explain whether the
business relationships are obligated to abide by the policy commitments or are encouraged
(but not obligated) to do so.
Guidance to 2-23-f
The organization can report:
• whether the policy commitments need to be read, agreed to, and regularly signed by all
workers, business partners, and other relevant parties, such as governance body members;
• the means through which it communicates the policy commitments (e.g., newsletters, formal
or informal meetings, dedicated websites, contractual agreements);
• how it identifies and removes potential barriers to the communication or dissemination of
the policy commitments (e.g., by making them accessible and available in relevant
languages).
38 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021