Disclosure 2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability

reporting
The organization shall:
REQUIREMENTS
a. list all its entities included in its sustainability reporting;
b. if the organization has audited consolidated financial statements or financial
information filed on public record, specify the differences between the list of entities
included in its financial reporting and the list included in its sustainability reporting;
c. if the organization consists of multiple entities, explain the approach used for
consolidating the information, including:
i. whether the approach involves adjustments to information for minority interests;
ii. how the approach takes into account mergers, acquisitions, and disposal of
entities or parts of entities;
iii. whether and how the approach differs across the disclosures in this Standard and
across material topics.
Guidance to 2-2-a
GUIDANCE
The entities reported under 2-2-a form the basis for reporting the disclosures in this Standard
and for determining the organization’s material topics.
Requirement 2-2-a includes those entities that the organization controls or has an interest in
and are included in its sustainability reporting, such as subsidiaries, joint ventures, and
affiliates, including minority interests. The organization should report information for the same
group of entities as covered in its financial reporting.
When determining its material topics, the organization should consider the impacts of additional
entities with which it has business relationships that are not included in the list reported under
2-2-a. See section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 for more information.
Guidance to 2-2-a and 2-2-b
If all the entities in the organization’s financial reporting are also included in its sustainability
reporting, a brief statement of this fact, including a link or reference to the list of entities included
in its audited consolidated financial statements or financial information filed on public record, is
sufficient to comply with 2-2-a and 2-2-b.
The organization should separately specify any additional entities included in the sustainability
reporting that are not included in its financial reporting.
Guidance to 2-2-c
A minority interest is an ownership interest in an entity that is not controlled by the parent entity.
10 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021