Disclosure 2-21 Annual total compensation ratio and Disclosure 2-30 Collective bargaining

agreements in this Standard.
This disclosure covers all employees who perform work for any of the organization’s entities
included in its sustainability reporting as reported under Disclosure 2-2 in this Standard.
See references [7], [19], [22], [23], [24], [26], and [30] in the Bibliography.
Guidance to 2-7-a
An employee is an individual who is in an employment relationship with the organization
according to national law or practice.
Providing a breakdown of employees by gender gives insight into gender representation across
the organization. Providing a breakdown of employees by region gives insight into regional
variations. A region can refer to a country or other geographic locations, such as a city or a world
region.
See Table 1 and Table 2 of this Standard for examples of how to present this information.
Guidance to 2-7-b
The definitions of permanent, temporary, non-guaranteed hours, full-time, and part-time
employees differ between countries. If the organization has employees in more than one
country, it should use the definitions as per the national laws of the countries where the
employees are based to calculate country-level data. The country-level data should then be
added up to calculate total numbers, disregarding differences in national legal definitions.
Non-guaranteed hours employees are employed by the organization without a guarantee of a
minimum or fixed number of working hours. The employee may need to make themselves
available for work as required, but the organization is not contractually obligated to offer the
employee a minimum or fixed number of working hours per day, week, or month. Casual
employees, employees with zero-hour contracts, and on-call employees are examples that fall
under this category.
16 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
If the organization is unable to report exact figures, it can report estimates of the number of
employees to the nearest ten or, where the number of employees is greater than 1,000, to the
nearest 100, and explain this under 2-7-c.
See Table 1 and Table 2 of this Standard for examples of how to present this information.
Guidance to 2-7-c
The organization can report the total number of employees and the number of permanent,
temporary, non-guaranteed hours, full-time, and part-time employees in head count or full-time
equivalent (FTE). Reporting these numbers in head count gives insight into the number of
individual employees, whether full-time or part-time employed. Reporting these numbers in FTE
gives insight into the hours worked.
The organization can use another methodology for reporting these numbers.
Reporting the number of employees at the end of the reporting period provides information for
that point in time, without capturing fluctuations during the reporting period. Reporting these
numbers in averages across the reporting period takes into account fluctuations during the
reporting period.
Guidance to 2-7-d
Quantitative data, such as the number of temporary or part-time employees, is unlikely to be
sufficient on its own. For example, a high proportion of temporary or part-time employees could
indicate lack of employment security for employees, but it could equally signal workplace
flexibility when offered as a voluntary choice. For this reason, the organization is required to
report contextual information to help information users interpret the data.
The organization can explain the reasons for temporary employment. An example of such a
reason is the recruitment of employees to undertake work on a temporary or seasonal project or
event. Another example is the standard practice to offer a temporary contract (e.g., six months) to
new employees before an offer of permanent employment is made. The organization can also
explain the reasons for non-guaranteed hours employment.
The organization can explain how it defines full-time employment. If the organization has
employees in more than one country, it can report the definitions of full-time employment it uses
for the regions that cover these countries. The organization can also explain the reasons for
part-time employment. Examples of such reasons are to accommodate employees’ requests to
work reduced hours, or because the organization is unable to provide full-time employment to all
employees.
If there are differences in permanent, temporary, non-guaranteed hours, full-time, and part-time
employment between genders or between regions, the organization can explain the reasons for
these differences.
Guidance to 2-7-e
Requirement 2-7-e enables the organization to explain how the numbers of employees vary
during the reporting period compared to the previous reporting periods (i.e., whether the
numbers have increased or decreased). It can also include the reasons for the fluctuations. For
example, an increase in the number of employees during the reporting period could be due to a
seasonal event. Conversely, a decrease in the number of employees compared to the previous
reporting period could be due to the completion of a temporary project.
It is up to the organization to determine which fluctuations in the number of employees it
considers significant to report under 2-7-e. The organization should report its threshold for
determining significant fluctuations.
If there are no significant fluctuations in the number of employees during the reporting period or
between reporting periods, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient to comply with the
requirement.
17 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
Table 1. Example template for presenting information on employees by gender
[Reporting period]
FEMALE MALE OTHER* NOT DISCLOSED TOTAL
Number of employees (head count / FTE)
Number of permanent employees (head count / FTE)
Number of temporary employees (head count / FTE)
Number of non-guaranteed hours employees (head count / FTE)
Number of full-time employees (head count / FTE)
Number of part-time employees (head count / FTE)
* Gender as specified by the employees themselves.
Table 2. Example template for presenting information on employees by region
[Reporting period]
REGION A REGION B TOTAL
Number of employees (head count / FTE)
Number of permanent employees (head count / FTE)
Number of temporary employees (head count / FTE)
Number of non-guaranteed hours employees (head count / FTE)
Number of full-time employees (head count / FTE)
Number of part-time employees (head count / FTE)
18 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021