Disclosure 2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising

concerns
The organization shall:
REQUIREMENTS
a. describe the mechanisms for individuals to:
i. seek advice on implementing the organization’s policies and practices for
responsible business conduct;
ii. raise concerns about the organization’s business conduct.
This disclosure covers the organization’s mechanisms for individuals to seek advice and raise
GUIDANCE
concerns about responsible business conduct in the organization's operations and business
relationships. Examples of these mechanisms include confidential interviews during site visits,
escalation processes (to raise issues through management levels), hotlines, mechanisms to
report non-compliance with laws and regulations, and whistleblowing mechanisms.
These mechanisms enable individuals to raise concerns about wrongdoing or breaches of the
law in the organization’s operations or business relationships, regardless of whether the
individuals themselves are harmed or not. They are distinct from grievance mechanisms, which
enable stakeholders to raise concerns about, and seek remedy / remediation for, the
organization’s potential and actual negative impacts on them. Grievance mechanisms are
reported under Disclosure 2-25 in this Standard.
If the organization’s grievance mechanisms and its mechanisms for seeking advice and raising
concerns about responsible business conduct operate in a similar way, the organization can
provide a single description of how these mechanisms operate and explain which mechanisms
the description covers.
The organization can report:
• who the intended users of the mechanisms are;
• how the mechanisms operate and which level or function in the organization is assigned
responsibility for them;
• whether the mechanisms are operated independently of the organization (e.g., by a third
party);
• the process through which concerns are investigated;
• whether requests for advice and concerns raised are treated confidentially;
• whether the mechanisms can be used anonymously.
Additionally, the organization can report information about the effectiveness of the mechanisms,
including:
• whether and how the intended users are informed about the mechanisms and trained on
how to use them;
• the accessibility of the mechanisms, such as the number of hours per day or days per week
they are available, and their availability in different languages;
• how the organization seeks to ensure it respects users’ human rights and protects them
against reprisals (i.e., non-retaliation for raising concerns);
• how satisfied users are with the mechanisms and with the resulting outcomes;
• the number and types of requests for advice received during the reporting period, and the
percentage of requests that were answered;
• the number and types of concerns raised during the reporting period, and the percentage of
concerns that were addressed and resolved or found to be unsubstantiated.
44 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021