Disclosure 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement

The organization shall:
REQUIREMENTS
a. describe its approach to engaging with stakeholders, including:
i. the categories of stakeholders it engages with, and how they are identified;
ii. the purpose of the stakeholder engagement;
iii. how the organization seeks to ensure meaningful engagement with stakeholders.
Stakeholders are individuals or groups that have interests that are affected or could be affected
GUIDANCE
by the organization’s activities [11]. For more information on stakeholders, see section 2.4
in GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
This disclosure covers stakeholder engagement undertaken by the organization as part of its
ongoing activities, rather than specifically for the purpose of sustainability reporting.
Guidance to 2-29-a-i
Common categories of stakeholders for organizations are business partners, civil society
organizations, consumers, customers, employees and other workers, governments, local
communities, non-governmental organizations, shareholders and other investors, suppliers,
trade unions, and vulnerable groups.
The organization can explain how it determines which categories of stakeholders to engage with
and which categories not to engage with.
Guidance to 2-29-a-ii
The purpose of stakeholder engagement can be, for example, to identify actual and
potential impacts or to determine prevention and mitigation responses to potential negative
impacts. In some cases, stakeholder engagement is a right in and of itself, such as the right of
workers to form or join trade unions or their right to bargain collectively.
The organization can also report:
• the type of stakeholder engagement (e.g., participation, consultation, information) and its
frequency (e.g., ongoing, quarterly, annually);
• when it engages directly with stakeholders and when it engages with credible stakeholder
representatives or proxy organizations, or other credible independent expert resources, and
why;
• whether stakeholder engagement activities take place at the organizational level or at a lower
level, such as at the site or project level, and in the latter case, how information from
stakeholder engagement activities is centralized;
• the resources (e.g., financial or human resources) allocated to stakeholder engagement.
Further information on stakeholder engagement undertaken for specific activities is reported
under other disclosures. For example, the organization must report on stakeholder engagement
undertaken to determine and manage material topics under 3-1-b and 3-3-f in GRI 3: Material
Topics 2021.
Guidance to 2-29-a-iii
Meaningful stakeholder engagement is characterized by two-way communication and depends
on the good faith of participants on both sides. It is also responsive and ongoing and includes in
many cases engaging with relevant stakeholders before decisions are made. [11]
The organization can report:
• how it takes into account potential barriers to stakeholder engagement (e.g., language and
cultural differences, gender and power imbalances, divisions within a community or group);
48 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
• how it engages with at-risk or vulnerable groups (e.g., whether it takes specific approaches
and gives special attention to potential barriers);
• how it provides stakeholders with information that is understandable and accessible through
appropriate communication channels;
• how stakeholder feedback is recorded and integrated into decision-making, and how
stakeholders are informed about the way in which their feedback has influenced decisions;
• how it seeks to respect the human rights of all stakeholders engaged, for example, their
rights to privacy, freedom of expression, and peaceful assembly and protest;
• how it works with business partners to engage with stakeholders in a meaningful way,
including the expectations it places on business partners to respect the human rights of
stakeholders during engagement.
49 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021