Disclosure 2-6 Activities, value chain and other business

relationships
The organization shall:
REQUIREMENTS
a. report the sector(s) in which it is active;
b. describe its value chain, including:
i. the organization’s activities, products, services, and markets served;
ii. the organization’s supply chain;
iii. the entities downstream from the organization and their activities;
c. report other relevant business relationships;
d. describe significant changes in 2-6-a, 2-6-b, and 2-6-c compared to the previous
reporting period.
Guidance to 2-6-a
GUIDANCE
Sectors can be identified according to categories, such as the public or private sector; or
industry-specific categories, such as the education sector or the financial sector.
Depending on the organization’s activities, sectors can be identified using the GRI Sector
Standards or classification systems such as the Global Industry Classification Standard
(GICS®), the Industry Classification Benchmark (ICB), the International Standard Industrial
Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC), and the Sustainable Industry Classification
System (SICS®).
Guidance to 2-6-b
The organization’s value chain includes the range of activities carried out by the organization,
and by entities upstream and downstream from the organization, to bring the organization’s
products or services from their conception to their end use. Entities upstream from the
organization provide products or services used in the development of the organization’s own
products or services. Entities downstream from the organization are those that receive products
or services from the organization. Entities in the value chain include entities beyond the first tier,
both upstream and downstream.
The information reported under 2-6-b provides a context for understanding the
organization’s impacts across its value chain, including through the use of its products and
services. Describing the markets served provides further information on the groups of
customers targeted by the organization’s products and services.
The organization is not required to provide a detailed description of each activity in its value
chain. Instead, it can provide a high-level overview of its value chain.
Guidance to 2-6-b-i
When describing its activities, the organization should report its total number of operations and
explain how it defines ‘operation’.
When describing its products and services, the organization should report:
• the quantity of products or services provided during the reporting period (e.g., number of
products or services provided, net sales of products or services provided);
• whether it sells products or services that are banned in certain markets or are the subject of
stakeholder concerns or public debate, including the reason for the ban or concerns and
how the organization has responded to these concerns.
14 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
When describing the markets served, the organization can report:
• the geographic locations where products and services are offered;
• the demographic or other characteristics of the markets;
• information on the size and relative importance of the markets (e.g., net sales, net revenues).
Guidance to 2-6-b-ii
The organization can describe:
• the types of suppliers (e.g., brokers, contractors, wholesalers);
• the estimated number of suppliers throughout its supply chain and in each tier (e.g., first tier,
second tier);
• the types of activities related to the organization’s products and services carried out by its
suppliers (e.g., manufacturing, providing consulting services);
• the nature of its business relationships with its suppliers (e.g., long-term or short-term,
contractual or non-contractual, project-based or event-based);
• the sector-specific characteristics of its supply chain (e.g., labor-intensive);
• the estimated monetary value of payments made to its suppliers;
• the geographic location of its suppliers.
Guidance to 2-6-b-iii
The organization can describe:
• the types of downstream entities (e.g., customers, beneficiaries);
• the estimated number of downstream entities;
• the types of activities related to the organization’s products and services carried out by the
downstream entities (e.g., manufacturing, wholesale, retail);
• the nature of its business relationships with the downstream entities (e.g., long-term or
short-term, contractual or non-contractual, project-based or event-based);
• the geographic location of the downstream entities.
Guidance to 2-6-c
Other relevant business relationships include relationships that the organization has with
entities that are not described as part of its value chain under 2-6-b. These may
include business partners (e.g., joint ventures) and other entities directly linked to the
organization’s operations, products, or services (for examples, see the note in the definition of
‘business relationships’).
The organization can report the types of entities, their activities, and their geographic location.
Guidance to 2-6-d
Requirement 2-6-d entails describing significant changes in the organization’s sectors, value
chain, and other business relationships compared to the previous reporting period. This
information can help explain changes to the organization’s impacts. Examples of significant
changes that can be reported under this disclosure are changes in activities such as the
opening, closing, or expansion of facilities; changes in the structure of the organization’s supply
chain or in its relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination; or changes in
the location of its suppliers.
15 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021