Disclosure 2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations

The organization shall:
REQUIREMENTS
a. report the total number of significant instances of non-compliance with laws and
regulations during the reporting period, and a breakdown of this total by:
i. instances for which fines were incurred;
ii. instances for which non-monetary sanctions were incurred;
b. report the total number and the monetary value of fines for instances of non-
compliance with laws and regulations that were paid during the reporting period, and a
breakdown of this total by:
i. fines for instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that occurred in
the current reporting period;
ii. fines for instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that occurred in
previous reporting periods;
c. describe the significant instances of non-compliance;
d. describe how it has determined significant instances of non-compliance.
This disclosure addresses non-compliance, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations that
GUIDANCE
apply to the organization.
Non-compliance with laws and regulations can give insight into the ability of management to
ensure that the organization conforms to certain performance parameters.
Laws and regulations can be issued by various bodies, including local, regional, and national
governments; regulatory authorities; and public agencies.
Laws and regulations include:
• international declarations, conventions, and treaties;
• national, subnational, regional, and local regulations;
• binding voluntary agreements made with regulatory authorities and developed as a
substitute for implementing a new regulation;
• voluntary agreements (or covenants), if the organization directly joins the agreement, or if
public agencies make the agreement applicable to organizations in their territory through
legislation or regulation.
This disclosure includes significant instances of non-compliance that resulted in administrative
or judicial sanctions and fines that are being appealed during the reporting period.
Non-monetary sanctions can include restrictions imposed by governments, regulatory
authorities, or public agencies on the organization’s activities or operations, such as withdrawal
of trading licenses or licenses to operate in highly regulated industries. They can also include
directives to cease or remediate an unlawful activity.
The organization can use information about fines that have been reported in its audited
consolidated financial statements or in the financial information filed on public record, including
fines that are being appealed and which may appear as balance sheet reserves in the financial
statements.
If there were no significant instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations or no fines
were paid during the reporting period, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient to comply with the
disclosure.
Guidance to 2-27-c
The description of significant instances of non-compliance can include the geographic location
where the instance occurred, and the matter to which the instance relates, such as a tax fraud or
a spill. The organization is required to report sufficient information for information users to
understand the type and the context of significant instances of non-compliance.
The organization can also explain whether the significant instances are repeated or recurring.
45 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
Guidance to 2-27-d
When determining the significant instances of non-compliance, the organization can assess:
• the severity of the impact resulting from the instance;
• external benchmarks used in its sector to determine significant instances of non-
compliance.
46 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021