Disclosure 2-2 in this Standard requires the organization to list its entities included in its sustainability reporting.

These entities define the scope for reporting all other disclosures in this Standard.
Reasons for omission are permitted for all disclosures in this Standard except for:
• Disclosure 2-1 Organizational details
• Disclosure 2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting
• Disclosure 2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point
• Disclosure 2-4 Restatements of information
• Disclosure 2-5 External assurance
If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure for which reasons for
omission are permitted (e.g., because the required information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), the
organization is required to specify the disclosure or the requirement it cannot comply with, and provide a reason for
omission together with an explanation in the GRI content index. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for
more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be the
case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
item does not exist.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
7 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
Requirements, guidance and defined terms
The following apply throughout the GRI Standards:
Requirements are presented in bold font and indicated by the word 'shall'. An organization must comply with
requirements to report in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Requirements may be accompanied by guidance.
Guidance includes background information, explanations, and examples to help the organization better understand
the requirements. The organization is not required to comply with guidance.
The Standards may also include recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is
encouraged but not required.
The word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation, and the word ‘can’ indicates a possibility or option.
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
8 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
1. The organization and its reporting practices
The disclosures in this section provide an overview of the organization, its sustainability reporting practices, and the
entities included in its sustainability reporting.