Disclosure 2-8, together with Disclosure 2-7, gives insight into the organization’s approach to

employment, as well as the scope and nature of impacts arising from its employment practices.
It also provides contextual information that aids an understanding of the information reported in
other disclosures.
This disclosure covers all workers who are not employees and whose work is controlled by any
of the organization’s entities included in its sustainability reporting as reported under Disclosure
2-2 in this Standard.
If all the workers performing work for the organization are employees and the organization does
not have any workers who are not employees, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient to comply
with the requirements under this disclosure.
See references [7], [19], [22], [23], [24], [26], and [30] in the Bibliography.
Guidance to 2-8-a
Workers who are not employees are those who perform work for the organization but are not in
an employment relationship with the organization.
This disclosure requires the organization to report the number of workers who are not
employees and whose work is controlled by the organization. Control of work implies that the
organization directs the work performed or has control over the means or methods for
performing the work.
The organization might have sole control of the work or share control with one or more
organizations (e.g., suppliers, customers, or other business partners, such as in joint ventures).
Types of workers who are not employees and whose work is controlled by the organization
include agency workers, apprentices, contractors, home workers, interns, self-employed
persons, sub-contractors, and volunteers. The organization should report how it has determined
when it has control of the work for workers who are not employees.
The following are examples of workers who are not employees and whose work is controlled by
the organization. The following workers are included under this disclosure:
• Contractors hired by the organization to perform work at the organization’s workplace, in a
public area (e.g., on a road), or directly at the workplace of the organization’s client.
• Workers of one of the organization’s suppliers, where the organization instructs the supplier
to use particular materials or work methods to manufacture the products or deliver the
19 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
services.
• Volunteers or interns performing work for the organization.
The following are examples of workers who are not employees and whose work is not
controlled by the organization. The following workers are not included under this disclosure:
• Workers of an equipment supplier to the organization who perform regular maintenance on
the supplier’s equipment (e.g., photocopy machines at the organization’s workplace) as
stipulated in the contract between the equipment supplier and the organization.
• Workers of one of the organization’s suppliers, if the organization sources standard products
manufactured using the supplier’s production methods (e.g., purchasing stationery that is a
standard product of the supplier).
If the organization cannot report exact figures, it can report estimates of the number of workers
who are not employees to the nearest ten or, where the number of workers who are not
employees is greater than 1,000, to the nearest 100, and explain this under 2-8-b.
Guidance to 2-8-a-i and 2-8-a-ii
When reporting its contractual relationship with the most common types of workers, the
organization should report whether it engages them directly or indirectly through a third party,
and in the latter case, who this third party is (e.g., employment agency, contractor).
It is sufficient that the organization provides a general description. The organization is not
required to report the type of worker, contractual relationship, and work performed for every
worker who is not an employee.
Guidance to 2-8-b
The organization can report the number of workers who are not employees in head count or full-
time equivalent (FTE). The head count gives insight into the number of individual workers,
whether on a full-time or part-time basis. The FTE gives insight into the hours worked. The
organization can use another methodology for reporting this number.
Reporting the number of workers who are not employees at the end of the reporting period
provides information for that point in time without capturing fluctuations during the reporting
period. Reporting this number as an average across the reporting period takes into account
fluctuations during the reporting period.
Guidance to 2-8-c
Requirement 2-8-c enables the organization to explain how the number of workers who are not
employees varies during the reporting period or compared to previous reporting periods (i.e.,
whether the numbers have increased or decreased). It can also include the reasons for the
fluctuations. For example, an increase in the number of workers who are not employees during
the reporting period could be due to a seasonal event. Conversely, a decrease in the number of
workers who are not employees compared to the previous reporting period could be due to the
completion of a temporary project.
It is up to the organization to determine which fluctuations in the number of workers it considers
significant to report under 2-8-c. The organization should report its threshold for determining
significant fluctuations.
If there are no significant fluctuations in the number of workers who are not employees during
the reporting period or between reporting periods, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient to
comply with the requirement.
20 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
3. Governance
The disclosures in this section provide information about the organization’s governance structure, composition,
knowledge, roles, and remuneration.
The information reported under these disclosures is important for understanding how the management of the
organization’s impacts on the economy, environment, and people, including impacts on their human rights, is
integrated into the organization’s strategy and operations. It addresses how the governance bodies are set up and
how well equipped they are to oversee the management of the organization’s impacts. It also facilitates an
understanding of the role and the responsibilities of governance bodies with respect to these impacts.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).