Disclosure 2-24 Embedding policy commitments

The organization shall:
REQUIREMENTS
a. describe how it embeds each of its policy commitments for responsible business
conduct throughout its activities and business relationships, including:
i. how it allocates responsibility to implement the commitments across different
levels within the organization;
ii. how it integrates the commitments into organizational strategies, operational
policies, and operational procedures;
iii. how it implements its commitments with and through its business relationships;
iv. training that the organization provides on implementing the commitments.
This disclosure gives insight into how the organization embeds its policy commitments for
GUIDANCE
responsible business conduct, including the commitment to respect human rights, throughout
its activities and business relationships. This ensures that people at all levels act responsibly
and with awareness of and respect for human rights.
Guidance to 2-24-a-i
Examples of different levels within an organization include the highest governance body, senior
executives, and operational levels.
The organization can report:
• the most senior level with oversight of, or accountability for, the implementation of the policy
commitments;
• the functions in the organization with day-to-day responsibility for implementing each of the
policy commitments (e.g., human resources with the responsibility for implementing the
commitment to respect the rights of workers), including:
- their reporting lines to senior decision-making levels;
- the reason for allocating the responsibility to them;
• whether responsible business conduct is formally discussed at meetings of the highest
governance body or senior executives and, if so, which topics are discussed;
• whether there are other formal or systematic means for discussions about responsible
business conduct between different levels or functions in the organization (e.g., a cross-
functional working group).
Guidance to 2-24-a-ii
The organization can describe:
• how it aligns the policy commitments with its:
- broader risk management systems and management policies;
- economic, environmental, social, and human rights impact assessments, and other due
diligence processes;
- policies and procedures that set financial and other performance incentives for
management or workers;
• how it applies the policy commitments when making decisions, such as about its sourcing
and operating locations;
• the systems (e.g., internal audit) it uses to monitor compliance with the policy commitments
throughout its activities (across functions and geographic locations) and throughout its
business relationships.
Guidance to 2-24-a-iii
The organization can describe:
• its procurement or investment policies and practices, and its engagement with those with
which it has business relationships, including:
- whether and how it applies pre-qualification processes, bidding criteria, or screening
criteria consistent with the expectations stipulated in the policy commitments for
responsible business conduct;
- whether and how it considers the policy commitments in contracting or investment
agreements, or in specific policies or codes of conduct for suppliers;
• whether and how it considers the policy commitments in the process of determining whether
to initiate, continue, or terminate a business relationship;
39 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
• processes through which it enables or supports business partners and other parties to
implement the policy commitments (e.g., capacity building, peer sharing);
• incentives that it offers to business partners and other parties to implement the policy
commitments (e.g., price premiums, increased orders, long-term contracts).
Guidance to 2-24-a-iv
The organization can report:
• the content of the training;
• to whom the training is provided, and whether it is mandatory;
• the form (e.g., in-person, online) and frequency of the training;
• examples of how the organization has determined that the training is effective.
The organization can report whether the training covers how to implement the policy
commitments in general or in specific situations (e.g., ensuring the commitment to privacy when
handling customers’ personal data, ensuring the policy commitments are considered in
procurement practices).
The organization can specify if training is provided to those with day-to-day responsibility for and
those with oversight of or accountability for implementing the policy commitments. The
organization can also specify if training is provided to those with which it has business
relationships (e.g., distributors, franchisees, joint ventures, suppliers). The organization can
report the number or percentage of workers, business partners, and other parties that have
been trained during the reporting period.
40 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021