Disclosure 2-4 Restatements of information

The organization shall:
REQUIREMENTS
a. report restatements of information made from previous reporting periods and explain:
i. the reasons for the restatements;
ii. the effect of the restatements.
The organization should provide a restatement of information when it has learned that the
GUIDANCE
previously reported information needs to be revised. Restatements of information from previous
reporting periods can correct an error, or account for changes in measurement methodology or
to the nature of the business. Restatements of information ensure consistency and enable
comparability of information between reporting periods. See the Comparability principle in GRI
1: Foundation 2021 for more information.
The organization should report the criteria used to determine when a change or error in
previously reported information is considered significant enough to provide a restatement. A
change or error could be significant when it influences information users’ decision-making (e.g.,
it influences the analysis of the changes in the organization’s impacts over time).
For example, if an organization adopts a new, more accurate method for measuring greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions, it may subsequently experience a reduction in its previously reported
GHG emissions that meets the organization’s restatement criteria. The organization then
restates its previously reported GHG emissions. In such a case, the organization is required to
explain that it has restated its previously reported GHG emissions due to the new measurement
methodology and that this has resulted in lower GHG emissions than previously reported. The
organization should also report the quantitative change observed (e.g., GHG emissions are 10%
lower than the emissions previously reported).
If the organization has not made any restatement in the reporting period, a brief statement of this
fact is sufficient to comply with the requirement.
Guidance to 2-4-a-i
Examples of reasons for restatements of information include:
• change of base period or length of the reporting period;
• change in the nature of the business;
• change in the measurement methodologies or in the definitions used;
• disposals, mergers, or acquisitions;
• error made in previous reporting periods.
Guidance to 2-4-a-ii
The effect of the restatement refers to the consequences of the change or correction made to
previously reported information. If the restatement relates to quantitative information, the
organization should specify the quantitative change in the restated information (e.g., GHG
emissions are 10% lower compared to the level of emissions previously reported).
12 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021