Disclosure 2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts

The organization shall:
REQUIREMENTS
a. describe its commitments to provide for or cooperate in the remediation of
negative impacts that the organization identifies it has caused or contributed to;
b. describe its approach to identify and address grievances, including the grievance
mechanisms that the organization has established or participates in;
c. describe other processes by which the organization provides for or cooperates in the
remediation of negative impacts that it identifies it has caused or contributed to;
d. describe how the stakeholders who are the intended users of the grievance
mechanisms are involved in the design, review, operation, and improvement of these
mechanisms;
e. describe how the organization tracks the effectiveness of the grievance mechanisms
and other remediation processes, and report examples of their effectiveness, including
stakeholder feedback.
This disclosure covers grievance mechanisms that the organization has established or
GUIDANCE
participates in. Grievance mechanisms enable stakeholders to raise concerns about, and
seek remedy for, the organization’s potential and actual negative impacts on them. This
includes impacts on their human rights. This disclosure also covers other processes by which
the organization provides for or cooperates in the remediation of negative impacts that it
identifies it has caused or contributed to.
The United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights [14] and
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises [12] set out expectations for organizations to provide for or cooperate in
the remediation, through legitimate processes, of negative impacts that they identify they have
caused or contributed to. The organization is not responsible for the remediation of negative
impacts directly linked to its operations, products, or services by its business relationships,
where the organization has not contributed to the impacts. It can, however, play a role in the
remediation. See Box 3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 for more information on causing,
contributing, or being directly linked to negative impacts.
These instruments also set out expectations for organizations to establish or participate in
effective operational-level grievance mechanisms.
Grievance mechanisms are distinct from whistleblowing mechanisms. Whistleblowing
mechanisms enable individuals to raise concerns about wrongdoing or breaches of the law in
the organization’s operations or business relationships, regardless of whether the individuals
themselves are harmed or not. Whistleblowing mechanisms are reported under Disclosure 2-
26 in this Standard.
This disclosure covers the operation of grievance mechanisms and other remediation
processes. The actions taken to provide for or cooperate in the remediation of actual negative
impacts for material topics are reported under 3-3-d-ii in GRI 3.
The disclosure is only relevant to environmental remediation processes (e.g., processes to
remove contaminants from soil) when these are connected to impacts on stakeholders or
grievances raised by stakeholders. However, the remedy provided to stakeholders through the
mechanisms and processes covered by this disclosure may involve environmental remediation.
The use of environmental remediation processes can be reported under 3-3-d-ii in GRI 3.
Guidance to 2-25-b
Grievance mechanisms refer to any routinized, state-based or non-state-based, judicial or non-
judicial processes through which stakeholders can raise grievances and seek remedy.
Examples of state-based judicial and non-judicial grievance mechanisms include courts (for
both criminal and civil actions), labor tribunals, national human rights institutions, National
Contact Points under the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, ombudsperson offices,
41 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
consumer protection agencies, regulatory oversight bodies, and government-run complaints
offices.
Non-state-based grievance mechanisms include those administered by the organization, either
alone or together with stakeholders, such as operational-level grievance mechanisms
and collective bargaining, including the mechanisms established by collective bargaining. They
also include mechanisms administered by industry associations, international organizations,
civil society organizations, or multi-stakeholder groups.
Operational-level grievance mechanisms are administered by the organization either alone or in
collaboration with other parties and are directly accessible by the organization’s stakeholders.
They allow for grievances to be identified and addressed early and directly, thereby preventing
both harm and grievances from escalating. They also provide important feedback on the
effectiveness of the organization’s due diligence from those who are directly affected.
The organization can describe:
• the intended purpose and users of the mechanisms (i.e., whether they are intended for a
particular stakeholder category, topic, or region) and whether they enable users to raise
human rights-related concerns. For example, the organization can explain that it has
established a mechanism for community members to raise complaints about resettlement,
as well as a separate hotline for workers to raise concerns about issues affecting their
rights, such as health and safety conditions;
• how the mechanisms operate and who administers them (the organization or another party);
• whether operational-level grievance mechanisms are administered at the organizational
level or whether they are administered at a lower level (at the site or project level) and, in
such a case, how information from these mechanisms is centralized;
• how the mechanisms have been designed and on which principles and guidelines they are
based, including whether they are designed to meet the effectiveness criteria set out in UN
Guiding Principle 31 [14];
• the process through which grievances are investigated;
• whether grievances are communicated to the highest governance body;
• whether grievances are treated confidentially;
• whether the mechanisms can be used by stakeholders anonymously through representation
by a third party;
• whether the organization requires or provides incentives for the creation or improvement of
operational-level grievance mechanisms in workplaces of suppliers;
• whether the organization provides a back-up process for workplaces of suppliers that do not
have operational-level grievance mechanisms or where the existing grievance mechanisms
in those workplaces result in unresolved issues.
Guidance to 2-25-c
Requirement 2-25-c covers remediation processes other than grievance mechanisms. Such
processes lead to the remediation of an impact without mechanisms for filing a formal
complaint.
Examples include instances where the organization takes action to remediate an actual impact
evidenced in an impact assessment or a report published by a civil society organization.
Guidance to 2-25-d
The organization can describe, for example, how it engages with stakeholders who are the
intended users of the grievance mechanisms, to understand how they want to access the
mechanisms to raise concerns, and their expectations about how the mechanisms will operate.
Guidance to 2-25-e
According to UN Guiding Principle 31 [14], effective grievance mechanisms are legitimate,
accessible, predictable, equitable, transparent, rights-compatible, and a source of continuous
learning. In addition to these criteria, effective operational-level grievance mechanisms are also
based on engagement and dialogue. It can be more difficult for the organization to assess the
effectiveness of grievance mechanisms that it participates in compared to those it has
established itself.
The organization can report:
42 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
• whether and how the intended users are informed about the grievance mechanisms and
remediation processes;
• whether and how the intended users are trained to use the grievance mechanisms and
remediation processes;
• the accessibility of the grievance mechanisms and remediation processes, such as the
number of hours per day or days per week they are accessible, and their availability in
different languages;
• how the organization seeks to ensure it respects users’ human rights and protects them
against reprisals (i.e., non-retaliation for raising complaints or concerns);
• how satisfied users are with the grievance mechanisms and remediation processes, and
with the resulting outcomes, as well as how the organization assesses user satisfaction;
• the number and types of grievances filed during the reporting period, and the percentage of
grievances that were addressed and resolved, including the percentage that were resolved
through remediation;
• the number of grievances filed during the reporting period that are repeated or recurring;
• changes made to the grievance mechanisms and remediation processes in response to
lessons learned about their effectiveness.
Quantitative data, such as the number of grievances, is unlikely to be sufficient on its own. For
example, a low number of grievances could indicate that few incidents have occurred, but it
could also signal that their intended users do not trust the mechanisms. For this reason,
contextual information should be provided to help information users interpret the data.
43 GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021