Disclosure 403-9-c-ii does not require reporting which work-related hazards have caused or

contributed to which high-consequence injuries during the reporting period; it requires the
aggregate analysis of all work-related hazards that resulted in high-consequence injuries.
If a work-related incident resulting in a high-consequence injury is still under investigation at the
end of the reporting period, the organization can state this in its reported information. The
organization can report on actions taken during the reporting period to eliminate hazards and
minimize risks that were identified, or to address work-related incidents that took place, in prior
reporting periods.
Guidance for Disclosure 403-9-d
This disclosure covers any actions taken or underway to eliminate other work-related hazards
and minimize risks (i.e., not covered in Disclosure 403-9-c) using the hierarchy of controls. This
disclosure can include actions taken in response to non-high-consequence work-related
injuries, and work-related incidents with low probability of causing high-consequence injuries.
Guidance for Disclosure 403-9-f
Types of worker can be based on criteria such as full-time, part-time, non-guaranteed hours,
permanent or temporary basis, type or degree of control (e.g., control of work or workplace, sole
or shared control), and location, among others.
Guidance for Disclosure 403-9-g
If the organization follows the ILO code of practice on Recording and notification of occupational
accidents and diseases, it can state this in response to Disclosure 403-9-g.
If the organization does not follow the ILO code of practice, it can indicate which system of rules
it applies in recording and reporting work-related injuries and its relationship to the ILO code of
practice.
24 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
If the organization cannot directly calculate the number of hours worked, it may estimate this on
the basis of normal or standard hours of work, taking into account entitlements to periods of
paid leave of absence from work (e.g., paid vacations, paid sick leave, public holidays) and
explain this in its reported information.
When the organization cannot directly calculate or estimate the number of hours worked (e.g.,
because the workers performed non-routine work during an emergency situation, or because
the performed work was not paid for by the hour), it is required to provide a reason for this
omission as set out in GRI 1: Foundation 2021. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1 for requirements
on reasons for omission.
Guidance for clause 2.1.3
Clause 2.1.3 requires the organization to include injuries as a result of commuting incidents in
cases where the transport has been organized by the organization (e.g., company or contracted
bus or vehicle). The organization can report other commuting incidents separately; for example if
this information is to be reported under local law.
Guidance for clause 2.1.4
Clause 2.1.4 requires the organization to calculate the rates based on either 200,000 or
1,000,000 hours worked.
Standardized rates allow for meaningful comparisons of statistics, for example between
different periods or organizations, or help account for differences in the number of workers in the
reference group and the number of hours worked by them.
A rate based on 200,000 hours worked indicates the number of work-related injuries per 100
full-time workers over a one-year timeframe, based on the assumption that one full-time worker
works 2,000 hours per year. For example, a rate of 1.0 means that, on average, there is one
work-related injury for every group of 100 full-time workers over a one-year timeframe. A rate
based on 1,000,000 hours worked indicates the number of work-related injuries per 500 full-
time workers over a one-year timeframe.
A rate based on 200,000 hours worked might be more suitable for small organizations.
In addition to standardized rates, this disclosure requires the organization to report absolute
data (i.e., numbers), to allow information users to calculate the rates themselves using other
methodologies if needed.
Guidance for clauses 2.2.1 and 2.2.2
Target 8.8 of the UN Sustainable Development Goals aims to ‘protect labour rights and promote
safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular
women migrants, and those in precarious employment’. Some groups might be at increased
risk of work-related injury due to demographic factors such as sex, gender, migrant status, or
age; it can thus be beneficial to break down data on work-related injuries by these demographic
criteria. See reference [14] in the Bibliography.
ILO Convention 143 ‘Migrant Workers (Supplementary Provisions) Convention’ defines ‘migrant
worker’ as ‘a person who migrates or who has migrated from one country to another with a view
to being employed otherwise than on his own account and includes any person regularly
admitted as a migrant worker’. See ILO Convention 143 for more guidance.
If the data on work-related injuries are driven primarily by certain types of injury (e.g., amputation,
paralysis) or incident (e.g., explosion, road accident), the organization can provide a breakdown
of this information.
References
See reference [10] in the Bibliography.
25 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018