Disclosure 403-9. See references [5] and [16] in the Bibliography for a list of musculoskeletal

disorders.
Injuries involving members of the public as a result of a work-related incident are not included in
this disclosure, but the organization can report this information separately. For example, the
organization can report incidents where a vehicle driven by a worker causes the deaths of other
road users or incidents where visitors are injured during their visit to the organization’s
workplace.
Guidance for reporting on high-consequence work-related injuries
As per the definition of recordable work-related injury, the organization is required to report all
work-related injuries as part of the ‘number and rate of recordable work-related injuries’. In
addition, the organization is required to separately report high-consequence work- related
injuries, with a breakdown by:
• fatalities, to be reported using Disclosures 403-9-a-i and 403-9-b-i.
• other injuries from which the worker cannot recover (e.g., amputation of a limb), or does not
or is not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health status within 6 months (e.g., fracture
23 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
with complications), to be reported using Disclosures 403-9-a-ii and 403-9-b-ii.
The definition of ‘high-consequence work-related injury’ uses ‘recovery time’, instead of ‘lost
time’, as the criterion for determining the severity of an injury. Lost time is an indicator of the loss
of productivity for an organization as a result of a work-related injury; it does not necessarily
indicate the extent of harm suffered by a worker.
‘Recovery time’, in contrast, refers to the time needed for a worker to recover fully to pre-injury
health status; it does not refer to the time needed for a worker to return to work. In some cases,
a worker might return to work before full recovery.
In addition to reporting information on high-consequence work-related injuries based on
recovery time as required by this disclosure, the organization can also report the number and
rate of work-related injuries that resulted in lost-workday cases, the average number of lost days
per lost-workday case, the number of lost workdays, and the absentee rate.
Guidance for Disclosure 403-9-c
This disclosure covers work-related hazards that pose a risk of high-consequence injury if not
controlled, even when there are control measures in place. The hazards might have been
identified proactively through risk assessment, or reactively as a result of either a high-potential
incident or a high-consequence injury.
Examples of work-related hazards causing or contributing to high-consequence injuries include
excessive workload demands, tripping hazards, or exposure to flammable materials.
If the identified work-related hazards vary significantly across different locations, the organization
may group or disaggregate these by relevant categories, such as by geographical area or
business line. Similarly, if there are a high number of hazards, the organization may group or
categorize them to facilitate reporting.
When reporting how it has determined which work-related hazards pose a risk of high-
consequence injury using Disclosure 403-9-c-i, the organization can describe the criteria or
threshold used to determine which hazards pose such a risk and which do not. The processes
to identify hazards and assess risks, and to apply the hierarchy of controls, are reported using