Disclosure 403-6-b covers voluntary services and programs aimed at addressing major non-

work-related health risks among workers, including both physical and mental health-related
risks. Examples of these risks include smoking, drug and alcohol abuse, physical inactivity,
unhealthy diets, HIV, and psychosocial factors.
Voluntary health promotion programs and services might include smoking cessation programs,
dietary advice, offering of healthy food in the canteen, stress-reducing programs, provision of a
gym, or fitness programs. A program or service is voluntary when it does not set mandatory
17 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
personal targets, and if incentives are provided, these are not associated with the organization’s
decisions regarding employment or engagement of workers.
Voluntary health promotion services and programs complement but cannot be a substitute for
occupational health and safety services, programs and systems that prevent harm and protect
workers from work-related injuries and ill health. Voluntary health promotion and occupational
health and safety may be managed jointly by the organization, as part of an overall approach to
ensuring the health and safety of workers.
When describing how it facilitates workers’ access to voluntary health promotion services and
programs, the organization can explain whether it allows workers to make use of these during
paid working hours. The organization can also report if these services and programs are
available for family members of workers.
When describing its voluntary health promotion services and programs, the organization can
also report:
• how the topics covered in these services and programs are selected, including how workers
are engaged in the selection of topics;
• the extent to which these services and programs include proven effective interventions (see
reference [19] in the Bibliography);
• the metrics used to evaluate the effectiveness of these services and programs;
• the approaches used to raise awareness about these services and programs and
encourage participation.
Guidance for clauses 1.5.1 and 1.5.2
Non-occupational health services and programs are expected to respect workers’ right to
privacy. Organizations are expected not to use workers' participation in such services and
programs, or the health data derived therefrom, as criteria for their decisions regarding the
employment or engagement of workers, including termination, demotion, promotion or offering
of prospects, compensation, or any other favorable or unfavorable treatment. See reference [6] in
the Bibliography.
References
See references [1], [14], and [15] in the Bibliography.
18 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018