Disclosure 403-6 Promotion of worker health

The reporting organization shall report the following information for employees and for
REQUIREMENTS
workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the
organization:
a. An explanation of how the organization facilitates workers’ access to non-occupational
medical and healthcare services, and the scope of access provided.
b. A description of any voluntary health promotion services and programs offered to
workers to address major non-work-related health risks, including the specific health
risks addressed, and how the organization facilitates workers’ access to these
services and programs.
1.5 The reporting organization should report the following additional information:
RECOMMENDATIONS
1.5.1 How the organization maintains the confidentiality of workers’ personal health-
related information;
1.5.2 How the organization ensures that workers’ personal health-related information
and their participation in any services or programs is not used for any favorable or
unfavorable treatment of workers.
Guidance for Disclosure 403-6-a
GUIDANCE
Achieving universal health coverage, including financial risk protection; access to quality
essential healthcare services; and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential
medicines and vaccines for all, is one of the targets of the UN Sustainable Development Goals
(Target 3.8).
Workers’ access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services might be facilitated, for
example, through company clinics or disease treatment programs, referral systems, or health
insurance or financial contributions.
When describing the scope of access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services
provided, the reporting organization can specify the types of service to which access is facilitated
and the types of worker that have access to them.
If the organization does not facilitate workers’ access to non-occupational medical and
healthcare services because it operates in a country where the population already has access
to high-quality and accessible services (e.g., through financial or other support), the organization
can state this in its reported information.
If the organization does not facilitate access to non-occupational medical and healthcare
services for workers who are not employees because the employer of those workers facilitates
their access to these services, the organization can state this in its reported information.
Guidance for Disclosure 403-6-b
Ensuring healthy lives and promoting wellbeing for all at all ages is one of the UN Sustainable
Development Goals (Goal 3). This goal includes targets such as reducing premature mortality
from non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatment, and promoting mental
health and wellbeing; strengthening the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including
narcotic drug abuse and harmful consumption of alcohol; ensuring universal access to sexual
and reproductive healthcare services; and ending epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and
neglected tropical diseases, and combating hepatitis, water-borne diseases, and other
communicable diseases.