Disclosure 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and

incident investigation
The reporting organization shall report the following information for employees and for
REQUIREMENTS
workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the
organization:
a. A description of the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks
on a routine and non-routine basis, and to apply the hierarchy of controls in order to
eliminate hazards and minimize risks, including:
i. how the organization ensures the quality of these processes, including the
competency of persons who carry them out;
ii. how the results of these processes are used to evaluate and continually improve
the occupational health and safety management system.
b. A description of the processes for workers to report work-related hazards and
hazardous situations, and an explanation of how workers are protected against
reprisals.
c. A description of the policies and processes for workers to remove themselves from
work situations that they believe could cause injury or ill health, and an explanation of
how workers are protected against reprisals.
d. A description of the processes used to investigate work-related incidents, including the
processes to identify hazards and assess risks relating to the incidents, to determine
corrective actions using the hierarchy of controls, and to determine improvements
needed in the occupational health and safety management system.
Guidance for Disclosure 403-2-a
GUIDANCE
When describing the processes used to identify hazards and assess risks on a routine and
non-routine basis, and to apply the hierarchy of controls, the reporting organization can:
• specify whether these processes are based on legal requirements and/or recognized
standards/guidelines;
• describe the frequency and scope of processes undertaken on a routine basis;
• describe the triggers for processes undertaken on a non-routine basis, such as changes in
operating procedures or equipment; incident investigations; worker complaints or referrals;
changes in workers or workflow; results of surveillance of work environment and worker
health, including exposure monitoring (e.g., exposure to noise, vibration, dust);
• explain how obstacles to the implementation of these processes are removed for workers
who might be more vulnerable to the risk of work-related injury or ill health, such as workers
facing language barriers or having visual or hearing impairments (e.g., by providing
occupational health and safety training and information in a language easily understood by
workers).
Guidance for Disclosures 403-2-b and 403-2-c
Protecting workers against reprisals involves putting policies and processes in place that
provide them with protection against intimidation, threats, or acts that could have a negative
impact on their employment or work engagement, including termination, demotion, loss of
compensation, discipline, and any other unfavorable treatment. Workers might face reprisals on
account of their decision to either remove themselves from work situations that they believe
could cause injury or ill health, or for reporting hazards or hazardous situations to their workers’
representatives, to their employer, or to regulatory authorities.