Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2
equivalent.
b. If applicable, gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric
tons of CO equivalent.
c. If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO , CH , N O, HFCs, PFCs,
2 4 2
SF , NF , or all.
6 3
d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including:
i. the rationale for choosing it;
ii. emissions in the base year;
iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations
of base year emissions.
e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a
reference to the GWP source.
f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or
operational control.
g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
Compilation requirements
2.3 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-2, the reporting
organization shall:
2.3.1 exclude any GHG trades from the calculation of gross energy indirect (Scope
2) GHG emissions;
2.3.2 exclude other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions that are disclosed as
specified in Disclosure 305-3;
2.3.3 account and report energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions based on the
location- based method, if it has operations in markets without product or
supplier-specific data;
2.3.4 account and report energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions based on both
the location-based and market-based methods, if it has any operations in
markets providing product or supplier-specific data in the form of contractual
instruments.
2.4 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-2, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.4.1 apply emission factors and GWP rates consistently for the data disclosed;
2.4.2 use the GWP rates from the IPCC assessment reports based on a 100-year
timeframe;
2.4.3 select a consistent approach for consolidating direct (Scope 1) and energy
indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions, choosing from the equity share, financial
control, or operational control methods outlined in the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate
Standard’;
2.4.4 if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to
selecting them;
2.4.5 where it aids transparency or comparability over time, provide a breakdown of the
energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions by:
2.4.5.1 business unit or facility;
2.4.5.2 country;
2.4.5.3 type of source (electricity, heating, cooling, and steam);
2.4.5.4 type of activity.
12 GRI 305: Emissions 2016
Guidance for Disclosure 305-2
GUIDANCE
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions include, but are not limited to, the CO emissions
from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed
by an organization – disclosed as specified in Disclosure 302-1 of GRI 302: Energy 2016. For
many organizations, the energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions that result from the
generation of purchased electricity can be much greater than their direct (Scope 1) GHG
emissions.
The ‘GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance’ requires organizations to provide two distinct Scope 2
values: a location-based and a market-based value. A location- based method reflects the
average GHG emissions intensity of grids on which energy consumption occurs, using mostly
grid-average emission factor data. A market-based method reflects emissions from electricity
that an organization has purposefully chosen (or its lack of choice). It derives emission factors
from contractual instruments, which include any type of contract between two parties for the sale
and purchase of energy bundled with attributes about the energy generation, or for unbundled
attribute claims.
The market-based method calculation also includes the use of a residual mix, if the organization
does not have specified emissions-intensity from its contractual instruments. This helps prevent
double counting between consumers’ market-based method figures. If a residual mix is
unavailable, the organization can disclose this and use grid-average emission factors as a
proxy (which can mean that the location-based and market- based are the same number until
information on the residual mix is available).
The reporting organization can apply the Quality Criteria in the ‘GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance’
so that contractual instruments convey GHG emission rate claims and to prevent double
counting. See reference [18] in the Bibliography.
For recalculations of prior year emissions, the organization can follow the approach in the ‘GHG
Protocol Corporate Standard’.
The chosen emission factors can originate from mandatory reporting requirements, voluntary
reporting frameworks, or industry groups.
Estimates of GWP rates change over time as scientific research develops. GWP rates from the
Second Assessment Report of the IPCC are used as the basis for international negotiations
under the ‘Kyoto Protocol’. Thus, such rates can be used for disclosing GHG emissions where it
does not conflict with national or regional reporting requirements. The organization can also use
the latest GWP rates from the most recent IPCC assessment report.
The organization can combine Disclosure 305-2 with Disclosures 305-1 (direct/Scope 1 GHG
emissions) and 305-3 (other indirect/Scope 3 GHG emissions) to disclose total GHG
emissions.
Further details and guidance are available in the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Standard’. Details on
the location-based and market-based methods are available in the ‘GHG Protocol Scope 2
Guidance’. See also references [1], [2], [12], [13], [14] and [18] in the Bibliography.
13 GRI 305: Emissions 2016