Disclosure 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption

policies and procedures
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization’s anti-
corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by
region.
b. Total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anti-corruption
policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee
category and region.
c. Total number and percentage of business partners that the organization’s anti-
corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type
of business partner and region. Describe if the organization’s anti-corruption policies
and procedures have been communicated to any other persons or organizations.
d. Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training
on anti-corruption, broken down by region.
e. Total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-
corruption, broken down by employee category and region.
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 205-2, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.1.1 draw from the information used for Disclosure 405-1 in GRI 405: Diversity and
Equal Opportunity 2016 to identify:
2.1.1.1 the governance bodies that exist within the organization, such as the
board of directors, management committee, or similar body for non-
corporate organizations;
2.1.1.2 the total number of individuals and/or employees who comprise these
governance bodies;
2.1.1.3 the total number of employees in each employee category, excluding
governance body members;
2.1.2 estimate the total number of business partners.
Guidance for Disclosure 205-2
GUIDANCE
In the context of this GRI Standard, the term ‘business partners’ includes, among others,
suppliers, agents, lobbyists and other intermediaries, joint venture and consortia partners,
governments, customers, and clients.
Background
Communication and training build the internal and external awareness and the necessary
capacity to combat corruption.
10 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016