Disclosure 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total weight for each of the following:
i. Hazardous waste transported
ii. Hazardous waste imported
iii. Hazardous waste exported
iv. Hazardous waste treated
b. Percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally.
c. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
Compilation requirements
2.4 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 306-4, the reporting organization
shall:
2.4.1 convert volumes to an estimate of weight;
2.4.2 in response to Disclosure 306-4-c, provide a brief explanation of the methodology
used
for making these conversions.
Guidance for Disclosure 306-4
GUIDANCE
This disclosure covers waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention
Annex I, II, III, and VIII (see reference 1 in the References section). It covers hazardous waste
transported by or on behalf of the reporting organization within the reporting period by
destination, including transport across operational boundaries and within operations.
The organization can calculate the total weight of transported hazardous waste using the
following equation:
Total weight of hazardous waste
transported by destination
=
Weight of hazardous waste transported to the organization by destination from external
sources/suppliers not owned by the organization
+
Weight of hazardous waste transported from the organization by destination to external
sources/suppliers not owned by the organization
+
Weight of hazardous waste transported nationally and internationally by destination between
locations owned, leased, or managed by the organization
Imported hazardous waste can be calculated as the total weight of hazardous waste transported
across international borders and which enters the boundaries of the organization, by
destination, excluding waste transported between different locations of the organization.
Exported hazardous waste can be calculated as the proportion of the total amount of transported
hazardous waste by destination that is transported from the organization to locations abroad,
including all waste that leaves the boundaries of the organization to cross international borders
and excluding transportation between different locations of the organization.
For treated waste, the organization can identify:
• the portion of the total amount of transported
and exported waste that the organization has treated, by destination;
• the portion of the total amount of waste, by destination, that is treated by external
sources/suppliers, that has been transported, exported, or imported by the organization.
12 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016