Disclosure 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health

and safety impacts of products and services
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes
concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting
period, by:
i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty;
ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning;
iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes.
b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or
voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.
Compilation requirements
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 416-2, the reporting
organization shall:
2.1.1 exclude incidents of non-compliance in which the organization was
determined not to be at fault;
2.1.2 exclude incidents of non-compliance related to Incidents related to labeling
are reported in Disclosure 417-2 of GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016;
2.1.3 if applicable, identify any incidents of non-compliance that relate to events in
periods prior to the reporting period.
Guidance for Disclosure 416-2
GUIDANCE
The incidents of non-compliance that occur within the reporting period can relate to incidents
formally resolved during the reporting period, whether they occurred in periods prior to the
reporting period or not.
Background
Protection of health and safety is a recognized goal of many national and international
regulations. Customers expect products and services to perform their intended functions
satisfactorily, and not pose a risk to health and safety. Customers have a right to non-hazardous
products. Where their health and safety is affected, customers also have the right to seek
redress.
This disclosure addresses the life cycle of the product or service once it is available for use, and
therefore subject to regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety of
products and services.
10 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016