Disclosure 302-3 Energy intensity

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Energy intensity ratio for the organization.
b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio.
c. Types of energy included in the intensity ratio; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling,
steam, or all.
d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumption within the organization, outside of it, or
both.
Compilation requirements
2.5 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-3, the reporting
organization shall:
2.5.1 calculate the ratio by dividing the absolute energy consumption (the
numerator) by the organization-specific metric (the denominator);
2.5.2 if reporting an intensity ratio both for the energy consumed within the
organization and outside of it, report these intensity ratios separately.
2.6 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-3, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should, where it aids transparency or comparability over time, provide a breakdown of the
energy intensity ratio by:
2.6.1 business unit or facility;
2.6.2 country;
2.6.3 type of source (see definitions for the listing of non-renewable sources and
renewable sources);
2.6.4 type of activity.
Guidance for Disclosure 302-3
GUIDANCE
Intensity ratios can be provided for, among others:
• products (such as energy consumed per unit produced);
• services (such as energy consumed per function or per service);
• sales (such as energy consumed per monetary unit of sales).
Organization-specific metrics (denominators) can include:
• units of product;
• production volume (such as metric tons, liters, or MWh);
• size (such as m2 floor space);
• number of full-time employees;
• monetary units (such as revenue or sales).
Background
Energy intensity ratios define energy consumption in the context of an organization-specific
metric.
These ratios express the energy required per unit of activity, output, or any other organization-
specific metric. Intensity ratios are often called normalized environmental impact data.
In combination with the organization’s total energy consumption, reported in Disclosures 302-1
and 302-2, energy intensity helps to contextualize the organization’s efficiency, including in
relation to other organizations.
See references [1] and [3] in the Bibliography.
14 GRI 302: Energy 2016