Disclosure 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent.
b. If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO , CH , N O, HFCs, PFCs,
2 4 2
SF , NF , or all.
6 3
c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO equivalent.
2
d. Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions categories and activities included in the
calculation.
e. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including:
i. the rationale for choosing it;
ii. emissions in the base year;
iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations
of base year emissions.
f. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a
reference to the GWP source.
g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
Compilation requirements
2.5 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-3, the reporting
organization shall:
2.5.1 exclude any GHG trades from the calculation of gross other indirect (Scope 3)
GHG emissions;
2.5.2 exclude energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions from this disclosure. Energy
indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions are disclosed as specified in Disclosure
305-2;
2.5.3 report biogenic emissions of CO from the combustion or biodegradation of
2
biomass that occur in its value chain separately from the gross other indirect
(Scope 3) GHG emissions. Exclude biogenic emissions of other types of GHG
(such as CH and N O), and biogenic emissions of CO that occur in the life
4 2 2
cycle of biomass other than from combustion or biodegradation (such as GHG
emissions from processing or transporting biomass).
2.6 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-3, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.6.1 apply emission factors and GWP rates consistently for the data disclosed;
2.6.2 use the GWP rates from the IPCC assessment reports based on a 100-year
timeframe;
2.6.3 if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to
selecting them;
2.6.4 list other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions, with a breakdown by upstream and
downstream categories and activities;
2.6.5 where it aids transparency
or comparability over time, provide a breakdown of the other indirect (Scope 3)
GHG emissions by:
2.6.5.1business unit or facility;
2.6.5.2country;
2.6.5.3type of source;
2.6.5.4type of activity.
Guidance for Disclosure 305-3
GUIDANCE
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions are a consequence of an organization’s activities, but
occur from sources not owned or controlled by the organization. Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG
14 GRI 305: Emissions 2016
emissions include both upstream and downstream emissions. Some examples of Scope 3
activities include extracting and producing purchased materials; transporting purchased fuels in
vehicles not owned or controlled by the organization; and the end use of products and services.
Other indirect emissions can also come from the decomposing of the organization’s waste.
Process-related emissions during the manufacture of purchased goods and fugitive emissions
in facilities not owned by the organization can also produce indirect emissions.
For some organizations, GHG emissions that result from energy consumption outside of the
organization can be much greater than their direct (Scope 1) or energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG
emissions.
The reporting organization can identify other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions by assessing
which of its activities’ emissions:
• contribute significantly to the organization’s total anticipated other indirect (Scope 3) GHG
emissions;
• offer potential for reductions the organization can undertake or influence;
• contribute to climate change-related risks, such as financial, regulatory, supply chain,
product and customer, litigation, and reputational risks;
• are deemed material by stakeholders, such as customers, suppliers, investors, or civil
society;
• result from outsourced activities previously performed in-house, or that are typically
performed in-house by other organizations in the same sector;
• have been identified as significant for the organization’s sector;
• meet any additional criteria for determining relevance, developed by the organization or by
organizations in its sector.
The organization can use the following upstream and downstream categories and activities
from the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Standard’ (see reference [15] in the
Bibliography).
Upstream categories
1. Purchased goods and services
2. Capital goods
3. Fuel- and energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2)
4. Upstream transportation and distribution
5. Waste generated in operations
6. Business travel
7. Employee commuting
8. Upstream leased assets
Other upstream
Downstream categories
9. Downstream transportation and distribution
10. Processing of sold products
11. Use of sold products
12. End-of-life treatment of sold products
13. Downstream leased assets
14. Franchises
15. Investments
Other downstream
For each of these categories and activities, the organization can provide a figure in CO
2
equivalent or explain why certain data are not included.
For recalculations of prior year emissions, the organization can follow the approach in the ‘GHG
Protocol Corporate Value Chain Standard’.
The chosen emission factors can originate from mandatory reporting requirements, voluntary
reporting frameworks, or industry groups.
15 GRI 305: Emissions 2016
Estimates of GWP rates change over time as scientific research develops. GWP rates from the
Second Assessment Report of the IPCC are used as the basis for international negotiations
under the ‘Kyoto Protocol’. Thus, such rates can be used for disclosing GHG emissions where it
does not conflict with national or regional reporting requirements. The organization can also use
the latest GWP rates from the most recent IPCC assessment report.
The organization can combine Disclosure 305-3 with Disclosures 305-1 (direct/Scope 1 GHG
emissions) and 305-2 (energy indirect/Scope 2 GHG emissions) to disclose total GHG
emissions.
See references [1], [2], [12], [13], [15], [17] and [19] in the Bibliography.
16 GRI 305: Emissions 2016