Disclosure 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies

or procedures
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Percentage of security personnel who have received formal training in the
organization’s human rights policies or specific procedures and their application to
security.
b. Whether training requirements also apply to third-party organizations providing security
personnel.
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 410-1-a, the reporting
RECOMMENDATIONS
organization should:
2.1.1 calculate the percentage using the total number of security personnel, whether
they are employees of the organization or employees of third-party organizations;
2.1.2 state whether employees of third-party organizations are also included in the
calculation.
Guidance for Disclosure 410-1
GUIDANCE
The training can refer either to training dedicated to the subject of human rights or to a human
rights module within a general training program. Training can cover issues such as the use of
force, inhuman or degrading treatment or discrimination, or identification and registering.
Background
The use of security personnel can play an essential role in allowing an organization to operate
in a safe and productive manner, and can contribute to the security of local communities and
populations.
However, as set out in the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Service Providers,
the use of security personnel can also have negative impacts on local populations and on the
upholding of human rights and the rule of law.
According to the UN Human Rights Office of the High Commissioner, ‘human rights education
constitutes an essential contribution to the long-term prevention of human rights abuses and
represents an important investment in the endeavor to achieve a just society in which all human
rights of all persons are valued and respected.1
Training security personnel in human rights can therefore help to ensure their appropriate
conduct towards third parties, particularly regarding the use of force. This disclosure indicates
the proportion of the security force that can reasonably be assumed to be aware of an
organization’s expectations of human rights performance. Information provided under this
disclosure can demonstrate the extent to which management systems pertaining to human
rights are implemented.
1 United Nations Human Rights Office of the High Commissioner (OHCHR),
http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/Education/Training/Pages/HREducationTrainingIndex.aspx, accessed on 1 September 2016.
9 GRI 410: Security Practices 2016