Topic Management Disclosures

1. Topic management disclosures
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report how it manages each of its
material topics.
An organization that has determined the rights of indigenous peoples to be a material topic is required to report how it
manages the topic using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this section).
This section is therefore designed to supplement – and not replace – Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3.
1.1 The reporting organization shall report how it manages the rights of indigenous
REQUIREMENTS
peoples using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021.
The United Nations (UN) Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the International
GUIDANCE
Labour Organization Convention 169 ‘Indigenous and Tribal Peoples’ address the rights of
indigenous peoples. Indigenous peoples have both collective and individual rights, as set out in
these instruments.
The collective rights of indigenous peoples include, for example, the right to retain their own
customs and institutions, and the right to self-determination. According to the UN Declaration on
the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, the right to self-determination enables indigenous peoples to
‘freely determine their political status and freely pursue their economic, social and cultural
development’ and have the right to ‘autonomy or self-government in matters relating to their
internal and local affairs, as well as ways and means for financing their autonomous functions.’
Indigenous peoples also have the right to occupy and use their lands or territories, including
those who hold or use land pursuant to informal or customary rights. Indigenous peoples
cannot be relocated without free, prior, and informed consent. They also have the right to
redress in cases where their lands or resources have been occupied or damaged without their
free, prior, and informed consent.
Due diligence is expected of an organization in order to avoid infringing on the rights of
indigenous peoples through its activities. An organization is also expected to respect the rights
of indigenous peoples to free, prior, and informed consent in certain matters affecting them.
This is the case when, for example, an organization intends to start operations on land that is
inhabited or owned by indigenous peoples.
8 GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016