Disclosure 207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. A description of the tax governance and control framework, including:
i. the governance body or executive-level position within the organization
accountable for compliance with the tax strategy;
ii. how the approach to tax is embedded within the organization;
iii. the approach to tax risks, including how risks are identified, managed, and
monitored;
iv. how compliance with the tax governance and control framework is evaluated.
b. A description of the mechanisms to raise concerns about the organization’s business
conduct and the organization’s integrity in relation to tax.
c. A description of the assurance process for disclosures on tax including, if applicable, a
link or reference to the external assurance report(s) or assurance statement(s).
Background
GUIDANCE
Having robust governance, control, and risk management systems in place for tax can be an
indication that the reported approach to tax and tax strategy are well embedded in an
organization and that the organization is effectively monitoring its compliance obligations.
Reporting this information reassures stakeholders that the organization’s practices reflect the
statements it has made about its approach to tax in its tax strategy or equivalent documents.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-2-a
When describing the tax governance and control framework, the reporting organization can
provide examples of effective implementation of its tax governance, control, and risk
management systems.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-2-a-i
If the highest governance body in an organization is accountable for compliance with the tax
strategy, the organization can specify the degree to which the highest governance body has
oversight of compliance. The organization can also specify any accountability for compliance
delegated to executive-level positions within the organization.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-2-a-ii
When reporting how the approach to tax is embedded within the organization, the organization
can describe processes, projects, programs, and initiatives that support adherence to the
approach to tax and tax strategy.
Examples of such initiatives can include:
• training and guidance provided to relevant employees on the link between tax strategy,
business strategy, and sustainable development;
• remuneration or incentive schemes for the person(s) responsible for implementing the tax
strategy;
• succession-planning for positions within the organization that are responsible for tax;
• participation in tax transparency initiatives or representative associations that seek to
develop best practice around disclosures on tax or educate stakeholders on tax-related
issues.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-2-a-iii
Tax risks are risks associated with the organization’s tax practices that might lead to a negative
effect on the goals of the organization, or to financial or reputational damage. These include
compliance risks or risks such as those related to uncertain tax positions, changes in
legislation, or a perception of aggressive tax practices.
When reporting on the approach to tax risks, the organization can describe its risk appetite and
tolerance and provide examples of tax practices it has avoided because they are misaligned
with its approach to tax and tax strategy. Risk appetite and tolerance indicate the degree of risk
the organization is willing to accept in determining its tax positions.
10 GRI 207: Tax 2019
When reporting how tax risks are identified, managed, and monitored, the organization can:
• describe the role of the highest governance body in the tax risk management process;
• describe how the tax risk management process is communicated and embedded across
the organization;
• refer to any internal control frameworks or generally accepted risk management principles
that are applied to tax.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-2-a-iv
When reporting how compliance with the tax governance and control framework is evaluated, the
organization can describe the process through which the tax governance and control framework
is monitored, tested, and maintained. An example of this is giving an internal auditor
accountability for undertaking annual reviews of the tax department’s compliance with the tax
governance and control framework.
The organization can also specify the degree to which the highest governance body has
oversight of the design, implementation, and effectiveness of the tax governance and control
framework.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-2-b
One example of a mechanism for individuals to raise concerns about the organization’s
business conduct, or about activities that compromise the organization’s integrity in relation to
tax, is whistleblowing.