Disclosure 207-4-c by all its resident entities in the jurisdiction. This includes cash taxes paid by

entities to the jurisdiction of residence and to all other jurisdictions (e.g., withholding taxes
incurred in other tax jurisdictions).
If the tax paid includes a significant amount of withholding tax, the organization can explain this.
If taxes are incurred in other tax jurisdictions, the organization can report the amount of tax paid
to the other tax jurisdictions separately and identify the jurisdictions where the tax was paid.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-4-b-x
When reporting the reasons for the difference between corporate income tax accrued on
profit/loss and the tax due if the statutory tax rate is applied to profit/loss before tax, the
organization can describe items that explain the difference, such as tax reliefs, allowances,
incentives, or any special tax provisions where an entity benefits from preferential tax treatment.
The organization can group explanatory items into a generic category, such as ‘other’, if these
items together do not exceed 10% of the difference.
The organization can also report the expiration date, investment requirements, and likely long-
term continuity of tax reliefs or incentives for a jurisdiction.
In addition to providing a qualitative explanation as required by this disclosure, the organization
can also report a quantitative corporate tax reconciliation.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-4-c and clause 2.1
The organization is required to report information on a regular schedule and make it available in
time for information users to make decisions (see the Timeliness principle in GRI 1: Foundation
2021 for more information). The organization is also recommended to report the information for
the same reporting period and publish the information at the same time as its financial
reporting, where this is possible (see section 5.1 in GRI 1 for more information). However, the
15 GRI 207: Tax 2019
information required in Disclosure 207-4 might not be available for reporting until a later point in
time.
If the information required in Disclosure 207-4 is not available for the time period covered by the
most recent audited consolidated financial statements or financial information filed on public
record, the organization may report information for the time period covered by the audited
consolidated financial statements, or the financial information filed on public record,
immediately preceding the most recent ones.
Where this time period differs from the reporting period, the organization can specify the reason
why.
Guidance for clause 2.2.1
For each of the disclosures specified in clause 2.2.1, the data is considered to be reconciled
when the sum of this data for all tax jurisdictions equals the amount reported in the
organization’s audited consolidated financial statements or in the financial information filed on
public record.
Guidance for clause 2.2.3
When providing information for stateless entities, the organization can also include their
jurisdiction of incorporation.
Guidance for clause 2.3.1
Total employee remuneration in a tax jurisdiction can reflect the business value provided by the
entities in that jurisdiction to the organization as a whole.
Total employee remuneration also represents the basis for calculating taxes withheld and paid
on behalf of employees, covered under clause 2.3.2.
Guidance for clause 2.3.2
Taxes withheld and paid on behalf of employees refer to taxes withheld by the organization from
employee remuneration to be paid to the tax authorities. These can include income taxes,
payroll taxes, and social security contributions.
Guidance for clause 2.3.3
Taxes collected from customers refer to taxes and duties charged on and collected on the sales
of certain products and services. These are paid by the organization to the tax authorities on
behalf of customers.
Guidance for clause 2.3.4
Examples of industry-related and other taxes or payments to governments include:
• industry taxes (e.g., energy tax, airline tax);
• property taxes (e.g., land tax);
• product taxes (e.g., customs duties, alcohol and tobacco duties);
• taxes and duties levied on the supply, use, or consumption of goods and services
considered to be harmful to the environment (e.g., vehicle excise duties).
Guidance for clause 2.3.5
When reporting significant uncertain tax positions for a tax jurisdiction, the organization can
report the value of the tax positions in line with its audited consolidated financial statements or
the financial information filed on public record.
The organization can provide a description of tax positions that have not been agreed with the
relevant tax authorities at the end of the time period reported in Disclosure 207-4-c. The
description can include the nature of the disagreement and the reasons for any change in tax
positions that occurred during the time period, where relevant.
16 GRI 207: Tax 2019