Disclosure 207-4-b-i requires the organization to report a list of entities by tax jurisdiction.

If the organization’s publicly available audited consolidated financial statements, or the financial
information filed on public record, include a list of all its entities by tax jurisdiction, the
organization can provide a reference to this information.
When reporting the names of the resident entities for a tax jurisdiction, the organization can
specify if any of the entities are dormant.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-4-b-ii
When reporting its primary activities in a tax jurisdiction, the organization can provide a general
description such that a report reader can clearly identify the organization’s main activities in the
jurisdiction, for example, sales, marketing, manufacturing, or distribution. The organization is not
required to list the activities of each entity in the jurisdiction.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-4-b-iii
Employee numbers can be reported using an appropriate calculation, such as head count at the
end of the time period reported in Disclosure 207-4-c or a full-time equivalent (FTE) calculation.
To enable comparability, it is important that the organization applies the approach consistently
across all tax jurisdictions and between time periods.
If the organization is unable to report exact figures, it can report the number of employees to the
nearest ten or, where the number of employees is greater than 1000, to the nearest 100.
The number of employees is one indicator of the organization’s scale of activity in a tax
jurisdiction. In addition to the number of employees, the organization may report the number of
workers (excluding employees) performing the organization’s activities, if this helps explain the
14 GRI 207: Tax 2019
organization’s scale of activity in the jurisdiction. It is important that the organization reports the
number of employees and/or the number of workers consistently across all jurisdictions and
between time periods.
Guidance for Disclosures 207-4-b-iv and 207-4-b-v
These disclosures require the organization to report revenues from third-party sales for each tax
jurisdiction and from intra-group transactions between that jurisdiction and other tax
jurisdictions. Intra-group transactions within the same tax jurisdiction are not required, but the
organization can report this information separately.
Intra-group transactions between jurisdictions can influence the tax bases of the organization in
the jurisdictions involved in these transactions. Intra-group transactions within the same tax
jurisdiction do not affect the tax base of the organization within that jurisdiction.
For this reason, revenues from third-party sales and intra-group transactions with other
jurisdictions are a more appropriate indicator of an organization’s scale of activity in a tax
jurisdiction than aggregated revenues. Aggregated revenues could result in local revenues
being double-counted, which might create a misleading impression about the organization's
scale of activity in a jurisdiction.
The organization can also report other sources of revenue, for example, dividends, interest, and
royalties, where this is standard practice in the sector of the organization.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-4-b-vi
When reporting profit/loss before tax for a tax jurisdiction, the organization can calculate the
consolidated profit/loss before tax for all its resident entities in the jurisdiction.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-4-b-vii
When reporting tangible assets for a tax jurisdiction, the organization can calculate the
consolidated total of the net book values of tangible assets for all its resident entities in the
jurisdiction.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-4-b-viii
When reporting corporate income tax paid on a cash basis for a tax jurisdiction, the organization
can calculate the total actual corporate income tax paid during the time period reported in