Topic Management Disclosures

1. Topic management disclosures
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report how it manages each of its
material topics.
An organization that has determined supplier social assessment to be a material topic is required to report how it
manages the topic using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this section).
This section is therefore designed to supplement – and not replace – Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3.
1.1 The reporting organization shall report how it manages supplier social assessment
REQUIREMENTS
using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021.
The reporting organization can also disclose:
GUIDANCE
• the systems used to screen new suppliers using social criteria, and a list of the social
criteria used to screen new suppliers;
• processes used, such as due diligence, to identify and assess significant actual and
potential negative social impacts in the supply chain;
• how the organization identifies and prioritizes suppliers for assessment of social impacts;
• actions taken to address the significant actual and potential negative social impacts
identified in the supply chain and whether the actions are intended to prevent, mitigate, or
remediate the impacts;
• how expectations are established and defined in contracts with suppliers to promote the
prevention, mitigation, and remediation of significant actual and potential negative social
impacts, including targets and objectives;
• whether suppliers are incentivized and rewarded for the prevention, mitigation, and
remediation of significant actual and potential negative social impacts;
• practices for assessing and auditing suppliers and their products and services using social
criteria;
• a list of the type, system, scope, frequency, current implementation of assessment and audit,
and which parts of the supply chain have been certified and audited;
• the systems in place to assess the potential negative impacts of terminating a relationship
with a supplier as a result of assessing the supplier for social impacts, and the
organization’s strategy to mitigate those impacts.
Social criteria or assessments of suppliers for social impacts can include the topics covered in
other GRI Topic Standards (e.g., GRI 401: Employment 2016, GRI 403: Occupational Health and
Safety 2018, GRI 408: Child Labor 2016, GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016).
Negative impacts can include those that are either caused or contributed to by an organization,
or that are directly linked to its operations, products, or services by its relationship with a
supplier.
Assessments can be informed by audits, contractual reviews, two-way engagement, and
complaint and grievance mechanisms.
Actions taken to address social impacts can include changing an organization’s procurement
practices, adjusting performance expectations, capacity building, training, changes to
processes, as well as terminating supplier relationships.
Assessments and audits of suppliers and their products and services using social criteria can
be undertaken by an organization, by a second party, or by a third party.
8 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016