Disclosure 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant

21
air emissions
Glossary 22
Bibliography 25
4 GRI 305: Emissions 2016
Introduction
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their emissions-related
impacts, and how they manage these impacts.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains requirements, which provide information about how the organization manages its emissions-
related impacts.
• Section 2 contains seven disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s emissions-related
impacts.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing
this Standard.
The rest of the Introduction section provides a background on the topic, an overview of the system of GRI Standards
and further information on using this Standard.
Background on the topic
This Standard addresses emissions into air, which are the discharge of substances from a source into the
atmosphere. Types of emissions include: greenhouse gas (GHG), ozone-depleting substances (ODS), and nitrogen
oxides (NO ) and sulfur oxides (SO ), among other significant air emissions.
X X
GHG emissions
GHG emissions are a major contributor to climate change and are governed by the United Nations (UN) ‘Framework
Convention on Climate Change’ and the subsequent UN ‘Kyoto Protocol’.
This Standard covers the following GHGs:
• Carbon dioxide (CO )
2
• Methane (CH )
4
• Nitrous oxide (N O)
2
• Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs)
• Perfluorocarbons (PFCs)
• Sulphur hexafluoride (SF )
6
• Nitrogen trifluoride (NF )
3
Some GHGs, including methane, are also air pollutants that have significant negative impacts on ecosystems, air
quality, agriculture, and human and animal health.
As a result, different national and international regulations and incentive systems, such as emissions trading, aim to
control the volume and reward the reduction of GHG emissions.
The requirements for GHG emissions in this Standard are based on the requirements of the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate
Accounting and Reporting Standard’ (‘GHG Protocol Corporate Standard’) and the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Value
Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard’ (‘GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Standard’). These two
standards are part of the GHG Protocol developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business
Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD).
The GHG Protocol has established a classification of GHG emissions called 'Scope': Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3.
The GHG emissions standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), ‘ISO 14064’,
represents these classifications of Scope with the following terms:
• Direct GHG emissions = Scope I
• Energy indirect GHG emissions = Scope 2
• Other indirect GHG emissions = Scope 3
In this Standard, these terms are combined in the following way, as defined in the Glossary section:
• Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
• Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
• Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
5 GRI 305: Emissions 2016
Ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
The ozone layer filters out most of the sun’s biologically harmful ultraviolet (UV-B) radiation. Observed and projected
ozone depletion due to ODS generates worldwide concern. The UN Environment Programme (UNEP) ‘Montreal
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer’ (‘Montreal Protocol’) regulates the phase-out of ODS
internationally.
Nitrogen oxides (NO ), sulfur oxides (SO ), and other significant air emissions
X X
Pollutants such as NO and SO have negative impacts on climate, ecosystems, air quality, habitats, agriculture, and
x x
human and animal health. Deterioration of air quality, acidification, forest degradation and public health concerns
have led to local and international regulations to control emissions of these pollutants.
Reductions in the emission of regulated pollutants lead to improved health conditions for workers and local
communities and can enhance relations with affected stakeholders. In regions with emission caps, the volume of
emissions also has direct cost implications.
Other significant air emissions include, for example, persistent organic pollutants or particulate matter, as well as air
emissions that are regulated under international conventions and/or national laws or regulations, including those
listed on an organization’s environmental permits.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
6 GRI 305: Emissions 2016
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
This Standard can be used by any organization – regardless of size, type, sector, geographic location, or reporting
experience – to report information about its emissions-related impacts.
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report the following disclosures if it has
determined emissions to be a material topic:
• Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this Standard);
• Clause 1.2 in this Standard, if it is relevant to its emissions-related impacts;
• Any disclosures from this Topic Standard that are relevant to the organization’s emissions-related impacts
(Disclosure 305-1 through Disclosure 305-7).
See Requirements 4 and 5 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
Reasons for omission are permitted for these requirements and disclosures.
If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure (e.g., because the required
information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), the organization is required to specify the disclosure or the
requirement it cannot comply with, and provide a reason for omission together with an explanation in the GRI content
index. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be the
case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
item does not exist.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
7 GRI 305: Emissions 2016
Requirements, guidance and defined terms
The following apply throughout this Standard:
Requirements are presented in bold font and indicated by the word 'shall'. An organization must comply with
requirements to report in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Requirements may be accompanied by guidance.
Guidance includes background information, explanations, and examples to help the organization better understand
the requirements. The organization is not required to comply with guidance.
The Standards may also include recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is
encouraged but not required.
The word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation, and the word ‘can’ indicates a possibility or option.
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
8 GRI 305: Emissions 2016