Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent.
b. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO , CH , N O, HFCs, PFCs, SF , NF , or all.
2 4 2 6 3
c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO equivalent.
d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including:
i. the rationale for choosing it;
ii. emissions in the base year;
iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations
of base year emissions.
e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a
reference to the GWP source.
f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or
operational control.
g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
Compilation requirements
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-1, the reporting
organization shall:
2.1.1 exclude any GHG trades from the calculation of gross direct (Scope 1) GHG
emissions;
2.1.2 report biogenic emissions of CO from the combustion or biodegradation of
biomass separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. Exclude
biogenic emissions of other types of GHG (such as CH and N O), and biogenic
4 2
emissions of CO that occur in the life cycle of biomass other than from
combustion or biodegradation (such as GHG emissions from processing or
transporting biomass).
2.2 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 305-1, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.2.1 apply emission factors and GWP rates consistently for the data disclosed;
2.2.2 use the GWP rates from the IPCC assessment reports based on a 100-year
timeframe;
2.2.3 select a consistent approach for consolidating direct (Scope 1) and energy
indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; choosing from the equity share, financial
control, or operational control methods outlined in the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate
Standard’;
2.2.4 if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to
selecting them;
2.2.5 where it aids transparency or comparability over time, provide a breakdown of the
direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions by:
2.2.5.1 business unit or facility;
2.2.5.2 country;
2.2.5.3 type of source (stationary combustion, process, fugitive);
2.2.5.4 type of activity.
Guidance for Disclosure 305-1
GUIDANCE
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions include, but are not limited to, the CO emissions from the fuel
consumption as reported in Disclosure 302-1 of GRI 302: Energy 2016.
10 GRI 305: Emissions 2016
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions can come from the following sources owned or controlled by
an organization:
• Generation of electricity, heating, cooling and steam: these emissions result from
combustion of fuels in stationary sources, such as boilers, furnaces, and turbines – and
from other combustion processes such as flaring;
• Physical or chemical processing: most of these emissions result from the manufacturing or
processing of chemicals and materials, such as cement, steel, aluminum, ammonia, and
waste processing;
• Transportation of materials, products, waste, workers, and passengers: these emissions
result from the combustion of fuels in mobile combustion sources owned or controlled by
the organization, such as trucks, trains, ships, airplanes, buses, and cars;
• Fugitive emissions: these are emissions that are not physically controlled but result from
intentional or unintentional releases of GHGs. These can include equipment leaks from
joints, seals, packing, and gaskets; methane emissions (e.g., from coal mines) and venting;
HFC emissions from refrigeration and air conditioning equipment; and methane leakages
(e.g., from gas transport).
Methodologies used to calculate the direct (Scope I) GHG emissions can include:
• direct measurement of energy source consumed (coal, gas) or losses (refills) of cooling
systems and conversion to GHG (CO equivalents);
• mass balance calculations;
• calculations based on site-specific data, such as for fuel composition analysis;
• calculations based on published criteria, such as emission factors and GWP rates;
• direct measurements of GHG emissions, such as continuous online analyzers;
• estimations.
If estimations are used due to a lack of default figures, the reporting organization can indicate
the basis and assumptions on which figures were estimated.
For recalculations of prior year emissions, the organization can follow the approach in the ‘GHG
Protocol Corporate Standard’.
The chosen emission factors can originate from mandatory reporting requirements, voluntary
reporting frameworks, or industry groups.
Estimates of GWP rates change over time as scientific research develops. GWP rates from the
Second Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) are used
as the basis for international negotiations under the ‘Kyoto Protocol’. Thus, such rates can be
used for disclosing GHG emissions where it does not conflict with national or regional reporting
requirements. The organization can also use the latest GWP rates from the most recent IPCC
assessment report.
The organization can combine Disclosure 305-1 with Disclosures 305-2 (energy indirect/Scope
2 GHG emissions) and 305-3 (other indirect/Scope 3 GHG emissions) to disclose total GHG
emissions.
Further details and guidance are available in the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Standard’. See also
references [1], [2], [12], [13], [14] and [19] in the Bibliography.
11 GRI 305: Emissions 2016