Disclosure 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender

compared to local minimum wage
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. When a significant proportion of employees are compensated based on wages subject
to minimum wage rules, report the relevant ratio of the entry level wage by gender at
significant locations of operation to the minimum wage.
b. When a significant proportion of other workers (excluding employees) performing the
organization’s activities are compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage
rules, describe the actions taken to determine whether these workers are paid above
the minimum wage.
c. Whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant locations of
operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums can be used as a
reference, report which minimum wage is being used.
d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’.
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 202-1-b, the reporting
RECOMMENDATIONS
organization should:
2.1.1 use the data from Disclosure 2-8 in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 to identify
the total number of workers who are not employees and whose work is controlled
by the organization;
2.1.2 if applicable, convert the entry level wage to the same units used in the minimum
wage (e.g., hourly or monthly basis);
2.1.3 when a significant proportion of other workers (excluding employees) performing
the organization’s activities are compensated based on wages subject to
minimum wage rules, report the relevant ratio of the entry level wage by gender at
significant locations of operation to the minimum wage.
Background
GUIDANCE
This disclosure applies to those organizations in which a substantial portion of their employees,
and workers (excluding employees) performing the organization’s activities, are compensated in
a manner or scale that is closely linked to laws or regulations on minimum wage.
Providing wages above the minimum wage can help contribute to the economic well-being of
workers performing the organization’s activities. The impacts of wage levels are immediate, and
they directly affect individuals, organizations, countries and economies. The distribution of
wages is crucial for eliminating inequalities, such as wage gap differences between women
and men, or nationals and migrants.
Also, entry level wages paid compared to local minimum wages show the competitiveness of an
organization’s wages and provide information relevant for assessing the effect of wages on the
local labor market. Comparing this information by gender can also be a measure of an
organization’s approach to equal opportunity in the workplace.
9 GRI 202: Market Presence 2016
10 GRI 202: Market Presence 2016