Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Governance Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Corporate governance We recognize the importance of good governance, which Accordingly, the Nomination Committee takes E&I into is integral in fostering transparency, accountability, and account when reviewing the Board s composition, as well as ethical conduct across our business. Corporate governance when nominating new Director candidates. The Committee practices in Aramco are guided by a set of governance also considers each Director s professional experience, policies and procedures, in line with the Corporate integrity, honesty, judgment, independence, accountability, Governance Regulations as well as Company-relevant willingness to express independent thought, and global ethics and compliance policies. understanding of the Company s business.
Board composition The 11 members of the Board in 2024 include senior Saudi Government appointees and former senior executives The Board of Directors values independence and diversity from the international oil and gas, chemical, petroleum of talent, skills, viewpoints, and experience, and believes refining, and finance industries, five of whom are that such diversity enhances the performance of the Board independent. The relevant Director skills and experience in discharging its oversight duties.
are presented in the table below: Director skills and experience Executive leadership Possesses a deep understanding of organizations and strategy to assist 11 experience the Board in oversight of the Company s global operations and strategic planning.
Financial experience Brings valuable financial experience to the Board, including oversight 11 of financial reporting, internal controls, financial disclosure, investment and portfolio management, and/or trading.
Risk management Aids the Board in its risk oversight and can effectively identify, prioritize, 11 experience and manage a broad spectrum of risks.
Metrics 2023 2022 Global business leadership Provides perspective on diverse business environments, customers, 9 Number of independent Board members 5 5 experience and supply chains associated with the Company s global business and strategy.
Number of females on Board 1 1 Regulatory, legal, public Supports the Board in assessing and responding to evolving legal and 8 Number of nationalities on Board* 4 4 policy, and government regulatory environments.
experience Board composition by average tenure (years) 7 6 Other public company Aids the Board with an understanding of issues commonly faced by 8 Board composition by average age (years) 63.45 62.45 Board experience public companies, and provides insight on corporate governance Board members average attendance (%) 100 100 practices and trends.
Energy and chemicals Demonstrates a practical understanding of the energy and chemicals 7 industry expertise industry and provides valuable perspective on issues specific to the The effectiveness of the Board is also promoted through Additional information on Aramco s governance, including Company s business.
procedures and practices that ensure accountability. In 2024, the profile of each Board member, can be found in the the Board members attended all Board meetings. The Board Aramco Annual Report 2024 in the Organizational Structure Technology, innovation, Assists the Board in overseeing the Company s leadership in 6 has also performed its annual self-assessments as part of and Corporate Governance section.
cybersecurity, and scientific technological change and innovation including with respect to the Board evaluations, which provide insights into the Board experience Company s sustainability initiatives.
effectiveness and areas for improvements.
* Metric reported for the first time in Aramco s Sustainability Report.
114 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 115
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Governance continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Ethics and compliance Our sustainability governance Ethics and compliance matters are overseen at the corporate Reporting and handling of concerns We seek to integrate sustainability into all levels of This Board-level committee, which meets quarterly, assists level by the Conflict of Interest and Business Ethics Committee, governance, risk management, and decision-making. To that the Board in providing leadership, direction, and oversight Aramco provides its employees, suppliers, and stakeholders chaired by the President and CEO. The Committee is end, we have established a comprehensive structure to with respect to sustainability matters, by: with the General Auditor Hotline to report suspected responsible for applying the Company s policies pertaining govern sustainability matters within the Company, with clear misconduct, including allegations related to bribery or - Overseeing the Company s strategy, performance, and to conflicts of interest and business ethics in compliance roles and responsibilities.
corruption in an anonymous manner. This hotline enables reputation regarding sustainability matters that contribute with applicable laws and regulations. It is also tasked reporting through several channels including email, Board of Directors to long-term value creation throughout the Company s to promote a culture of accountability through regular telephone, and Company intranet.
global business; The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the assessments, monitoring, review of policies, systems, and Aramco maintains a zero-tolerance stance against any Company s management, providing strategic leadership - Reviewing the effectiveness of the Company s policies, controls related to conflict of interest and business ethics.
form of retaliation for good-faith reporting of suspected and guidance, as well as assessing business opportunities. programs, and practices with respect to safety, health, Code of Business Conduct misconducts. Responsible committees review findings It is also responsible for the Company s governance, risk, and environment, and social issues, as well as making such Our CoBC provides guidelines to the Directors, senior of misconduct, ensuring the prompt implementation compliance regime, including those related to sustainability recommendations to the Board; and management, employees, and contract employees of the of appropriate and consistent remedial measures. matters. In performing this oversight duty, the Board is
- Reviewing summary reports on material health, safety, Company and its controlled subsidiaries regarding, among assisted by its Sustainability, Risk and HSE Committee.
and environmental incidents within the Company.
In 2024, the number of allegations received through the other things, health, safety, and environmental protection, hotline increased by 17.2% compared to 2023, which could competition and anti-trust, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, be due to the growing reach of our awareness programs.
conflicts of interest, disclosures controls, insider trading, related-party transactions, data privacy, international trade Anti-bribery and anti-corruption controls, internal investigations, and compliance with The Company has a zero-tolerance policy for unethical applicable law. Our corporate values of integrity, excellence, behavior, requiring its employees and business partners safety, accountability, and citizenship serve as the basis of to adhere to the principles outlined in its Anti-Bribery our CoBC.
and Anti-Corruption Policy.
Supplier Code of Conduct The Company requires periodic acknowledgment of the Sustainability governance framework Our SCoC promotes our values and extends and maintains Company s ethics policies by its personnel, attesting to our ethical standards across our supplier network, enabling awareness of, and adherence to the Company s ethical long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships. It outlines and regulatory compliance standards. This helps ensure Board Sustainability, Risk and HSE Committee Board of Directors mandatory policies on conflicts of interest, bribery, our policies are continuously reinforced.
kickbacks, gifts and fraud, monitoring and compliance, in The Company has also established an ongoing internal addition to environmental, health, and safety issues, fair training plan in support of the Company s ethics and trade practices, and ethical sourcing.
regulatory compliance programs, continuously raising More information on the SCoC can be found in the Growing awareness on ethics and corruption risks. 23,652 hours Group Health, Safety, Group Strategy Group Executive Societal Value chapter of this Report. of anti-corruption training were delivered throughout Security and Environment President and CEO Committee Committee the Company in 2024, with a focus on our in-Kingdom Committee Downstream operations, following a campaign in Upstream in the prior year. The training hours recorded in 2024 therefore decreased with this shift in focus, as Downstream represents a smaller number of employees, relative to our Upstream operations. Strategy and Corporate Sustainability Steering Committee Development Number of allegations received through the 24-hour hotline Anti-bribery and anti-corruption training hours 2024 968 2024 23,652 Strategy & Market Analysis 2023 826 2023 27,674 2022 655 2022 22,575 Corporate Sustainability Department 116 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 117
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Governance continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data The Sustainability, Risk and HSE Committee held four Business Committees meetings during 2024.
At the business level, the Sustainability Steering Committee Sustainability in action
(SSC) comprises Aramco Senior Vice Presidents representing During the year, the Committee received updates from business lines and administrative areas across the Company.
management on routine assessments and reviews that were Strengthening environmental, health, and safety governance in Aramco The Committee is chaired by the Executive Vice President of conducted regarding several top corporate risks that the Enhancing safety oversight across affiliates Aligning environmental and health practices Strategy and Corporate Development, with the Senior Vice Company is actively managing, including those relating President of Strategy and Market Analysis, heading risk and across Aramco to major industrial incidents, major transactions, market As Aramco s global presence expands, so does our sustainability, and serving as the Secretary. dedication to improving safety performance across Aramco is enhancing its governance practices disruption, cyberattack, environmental compliance, and climate change. all affiliates. To drive safety excellence, we implemented by developing a uniform approach to environmental The SSC reviews and guides decisions and strategies related a five-pillar safety oversight strategy that combines and health (E&H) performance and related activities Further, in 2024 the Committee received several updates to sustainability, and enables the Company to Aramco s expertise with insights from affiliates, fostering across its global and in-Kingdom affiliates. This alignment assess potential impacts on long-term value creation for relating to the preparation of the Company s Sustainability a unified approach to health and safety. aims to realize the benefits of partnership and promote Report and endorsed the 2023 Sustainability Report for stakeholders and the business. It evaluates the Company s the interests of numerous stakeholders.
GHG mitigation plans and corporate risk assessments approval by the Board. In addition to monthly one-on-one engagements with for items related to sustainability. Outcomes from these each affiliate and quarterly virtual technical exchanges We successfully organized the inaugural E&H Roadshow In addition, the Committee reviewed the Company s 2023 evaluations are presented to and endorsed by the GEC with all affiliates, in 2024, we also organized our third in February and March 2024 to enhance our engagement performance with respect to safety incidents and before final approval by the Board. in-Kingdom Global HSE Forum, which brought together with affiliates. It was hosted in the Kingdom and across with respect to certain HSE metrics and targets. The leaders, safety professionals, and industry experts from three geographical regions the Americas, Europe, In 2024, the SSC held 12 meetings, where discussion included: Sustainability, Risk and HSE Committee also reviewed affiliates worldwide. These engagements and forums and Asia.
the Company s quarterly performance for the first three
- Evaluation of the GHG mitigation plan (including interim serve as platforms to exchange insights, share solutions, quarters in 2024 with respect to HSE metrics and targets, The roadshow s objective was to guide affiliates targets) up to 2050; and reinforce alignment, ensuring continued progress along with reviewing proposed HSE corporate key E&H performance, accelerating their readiness for
- Review of the annual materiality assessment; on our safety excellence journey.
performance indicator metrics and targets for 2025. reporting programs, and obtaining alignment on
- Endorsement of the 2023 Sustainability Report; E&H metrics, covering topics such as climate change, A summary of the additional activities and updates received
- Updates on global sustainability-related regulations; and biodiversity, NbS, and circular economy.
by the Committee in 2024 can be found in the Sustainability, Risk and HSE Committee section of the Aramco Annual - Review of current and planned sustainability investments. The roadshow, which was attended by more than 300 participants including CEOs, senior executives, Report 2024 in the Organizational Structure and Corporate The Company has established corporate-level and businessGovernance section. and leaders from 32 affiliates, provided a platform Link to strategic enabler: level committees to oversee specific sustainability-related for participants to present their E&H programs, and topics, e.g., people and organization, conflict of interest, Corporate Committees consider key solutions and best practices tailored to People business ethics, energy management, information security Responsibility for implementing and monitoring their operations.
risk management, oil spills, iktva, and citizenship committees.
sustainability activities at the Company level rests with the President and CEO, supported by the Group Executive External advisory group Committee (GEC), Group Strategy Committee (GSC), and the The Climate and Energy Transition Advisory Group comprises Group Health, Safety, Security and Environment Committee up to six independent advisers whose advice is sought to
(GHSSE). The GEC approves major sustainability initiatives bring external perspectives to key issues. This advisory group and targets (e.g., GHG mitigation investment plans), while has now been in place for four years. To reinforce its the GSC reviews and approves functional strategies independence, it is managed by a third party on behalf of including those pertaining to HR, technology, and the Company. The advisory group provides feedback direct sustainability (e.g., our net-zero emissions ambition across to management, including members of the SSC.
our wholly-owned operated assets).
Executive remuneration The GHSSE Committee, led by the President and CEO guides Senior executive remuneration is linked to our sustainability Aramco s health, safety, security, and environmental performance with eight of our 20 KPIs being sustainabilitypolicies, evaluating material issues, such as safety initiatives, related and linked to variable pay, ensuring a robust environmental and safety performance, compliance reviews, corporate governance framework. This ensures transparency, insurance survey results, major incidents, and cybersecurity.
oversight, accountability, and alignment of our sustainability targets with our business strategy and key objectives.
It follows a framework that incorporates fixed and variable components, where the variables component is marketaligned and subject to fulfillment of predefined performance goals, including sustainability performance.
This component consists of two distinct variable pay plans, namely:
- Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP), an annual cash-based initiative rewarding performance in financial, operational, safety, and sustainability areas; and
- Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), designed to recognize key financial, strategic, and environmental/sustainability achievements over a three-year period.
118 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 119
 Climate change and the energy transition Performance of our key metrics Climate change and the energy transition Our view We believe that an inclusive energy transition requires a careful balance between energy security, affordability, and environmental sustainability to support societal growth and prosperity.
Our ambition We have an ambition to reach net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 2050 across all our wholly-owned operated assets.
To support this ambition, we have set a new interim target for 2030 to reduce our upstream carbon intensity to 8.6 kg COe/boe or lower, and to achieve a 15% reduction by 2035 compared to our 2018 baseline.
We also have an ambition to mitigate 52 MMtCOe annually by 2035 from our business-as-usual forecast emissions.
Our approach We established our climate change and energy transition framework, underpinned by four pillars, to achieve our net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 ambition across our wholly-owned operated assets:
- Build on our competitive advantage as a leader in lower upstream carbon intensity operations by reducing our emissions and Full metrics table on pages 122-123 improving our energy efficiency;
- Develop lower-carbon solutions, including mobility transition Our contribution to the UN SDGs technologies and fuels, to achieve our GHG emissions mitigation To promote lower-carbon initiatives, Aramco is investing Aramco has set the ambition to plant 300 million mangroves ambition; in renewable energies, expanding CO storage capacity by 2035 in Saudi Arabia. This initiative is part of the Company s
- Support the materials transition and nonmetallic deployment by (e.g., carbon sequestration) as well as expanding gas broader environmental efforts to restore natural ecosystems, diversifying our products into lower-emissions value chains; and production to displace the burning of liquids for power enhance wildlife habitats, and contribute to carbon dioxide generation in the Kingdom. capture and storage.
- Enable the above pillars through technology investment, R&D centers, and Aramco Ventures $1.5 billion Sustainability Fund.
Aramco Ventures has been recognized as a top corporate Aramco is collaborating with research centers and industries, climate venture capital investor and the number two investor aiming to find solutions for climate challenges, and partnering To achieve our net-zero ambition across our wholly-owned operated globally on the Climate 50 list2. Aramco is expanding its with organizations with a climate focus, such as the OGDC, assets and our interim targets, we have developed a GHG reduction investments beyond traditional oil and gas sectors to stimulate OGCI, Ipieca, and WEF, as part of a wide range of government roadmap articulated around five key levers: improving our energy economic growth and create employment opportunities. and private sector collaborations across numerous industries.
efficiency across our Upstream and Downstream facilities, reducing Aramco is venturing into lithium production, essential for EV batteries, through a partnership with Ma aden. This initiative methane emissions and flaring, advancing carbon capture, expanding aims for commercial production by 2027, aligning with global renewable energy production capacity, and implementing natureenergy transition trends and fostering job creation in new based solutions as well as purchasing carbon offset credits.
industries.
To support global climate change efforts, we have a circular economy As a major producer of crude with lower upstream production program to guide our operations in efficiently managing resources and carbon and methane intensities than crude produced by many reducing GHG emissions on a lifecycle basis. of our industry peers, Aramco continues to work on its ambition of mitigating and reducing GHG emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets through a range of initiatives, which include investments in innovative technologies. These efforts also contribute to our alignment with the Kingdom s sustainability ambitions.
This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section of our website.
1. This metric is not applicable to our office-based entities: ATC, ASC, AOC, and SAAC.
2. For more information please visit: www.climate50.com.
22 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 23
 Climate change and the energy transition continued Aramco s climate change approach At Aramco, we believe that reliable and affordable energy The Company is striving to achieve further reductions supplies, including oil and gas, will be required to meet the in GHG emissions from its oil and gas operations, and world s growing energy demand, and that lower-carbon invests in technologies and solutions supporting the global energy supplies will complement conventional sources. energy and materials transition needed for a lower-carbon emissions future.
Climate change and energy transition framework Our climate change and energy transition framework is aligned with our corporate strategic themes, reflecting our commitment to maintaining upstream preeminence, enhancing downstream integration, and supporting lower-carbon initiatives, thereby reinforcing our dedication to reliable and responsible energy production.
With decades of experience in providing affordable and reliable energy, we strive to maintain our industry leadership. In our climate change and energy transition framework below, we outline our approach to progress towards our net-zero ambition Our first energy transition pillar, Differentiate , builds on Aramco across our wholly-owned operated assets and lower our value chain emissions. intends to continue to grow its liquids-to-chemicals our competitive advantage as a leader with lower upstream business, with a goal to increase its capacity in petrochemical carbon intensity relative to other oil and gas producers, producing complexes to up to four million barrels per day.
underlining our commitment to maintaining upstream By the end of 2024, Aramco achieved approximately 45% Differentiate Sustain Diversify of its objective, with further capacity additions under preeminence. It strengthens our position while expanding 1. A leader in lower upstream 2. Providing customers with 3. Diversifying our products and operations to meet future oil, gas, and petrochemical development. Our involvement in advanced materials, such carbon intensity operations lower-emissions solutions lower-emissions value chain demand. The Differentiate pillar focuses on implementing as nonmetallics and minerals, as well as liquids-to-chemicals,
- GHG emissions management - Transport technologies - Advanced materials innovative solutions to reduce emissions, optimize energy reflects our investments in lower-carbon products.
use across our facilities, and is further supported by our
- Upstream carbon intensity and fuels - Liquids-to-chemicals Our fourth pillar, Enable , is the focus of our R&D centers
- Energy efficiency - Natural gas five key levers to meet our interim aspirations and net-zero and Aramco s Sustainability Fund. Aramco believes that ambition across our wholly-owned operated assets. This
- Methane emissions - Hydrogen and ammonia technologies are an essential enabler for the future of both and flaring reduction - Renewables2 includes the use of renewable energy certificates (RECs) the Company and the energy industry. Technology optimizes from our renewable electricity developments to offset
- Renewables1 operations, enhances sustainability, and strengthens our our emissions.
competitive advantage.
The second energy transition framework pillar, Sustain , Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic theme: Strategic technologies are being developed to mitigate or is supported by Aramco s New Energies organization, U pstream Lower-carbon D ownstream reduce GHG emissions and support investments in lowerwhich was established in 2023. Through this strategic carbon products, including renewables and energy storage, p reeminence initiatives integration investment, we are advancing our ability to provide hydrogen production technologies including advanced lower-carbon solutions.
hydrogen extraction technologies, nonmetallic applications With the third pillar of our energy transition framework, development, thermal crude-to-chemicals (TC2C)
 Diversify , Aramco is investing in diversifying its deployment at our subsidiary S-Oil, and stationary carbon downstream products portfolio and developing lower- capture and direct air capture (DAC) technologies.
emissions value chains emphasizing our commitment to Aramco s ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 Enable enhancing downstream integration. The growing demand greenhouse gas emissions across our wholly-owned for petrochemicals is widely recognized as one of the key 4. Investing in lower-carbon emissions technologies and solutions operated assets by 2050 is supported by a clear emissions drivers of global oil demand growth, as these products reduction roadmap built around five key levers. Our five key
- Leveraging - Carbon capture - Natural climate solutions - Aramco Ventures are essential for industries ranging from plastics and levers are continuously monitored and reviewed to track technology and storage and carbon markets pharmaceuticals to consumer goods and advanced materials.
- Renewables progress and ensure they remain appropriate and relevant, Aramco s long-term objective is to grow its integrated in response to technological and digital innovations, Link to strategic enabler: Technology refining and petrochemicals capacity, and expand its evolving regulatory standards, and to optimize cost and product portfolio across the entire hydrocarbon value chain. capitalize on synergies.
1. Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) from the renewables will help offset our upstream emissions, to help differentiate us as a leader in lower upstream carbon intensity.
2. Aramco invests in solar and wind energy in support of the Kingdom s National Renewable Energy Program.
24 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 25
 Climate change and the energy transition continued Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Key risks and mitigations A leader in lower upstream carbon intensity At Aramco, climate change concerns and impacts inform our The Board of Directors and its Sustainability, Risk and HSE business strategy. Climate change risk is monitored through Committee perform the risk oversight role and monitor Maximizing recovery with advanced drilling AI flowmeter for real-time water monitoring Aramco s enterprise risk management (ERM) framework. the Company s overall risk management, including climate technologies Continuing to innovate, Aramco, in collaboration with It provides a structured and comprehensive approach to risk and its mitigations. More information on our risk King Abdullah University of Science and Technology identify, prioritize, and manage our corporate risks, and management framework and the risks we manage and Aramco s advanced drilling technology uses
(KAUST) has developed a microwave resonance flow is assessed on a medium- to long-term horizon. consider can be found in the Risk chapter of our Annual geo-steered multilateral wells and smart completions meter using a digital-twin AI model to accurately Report 2024. to maximize recovery, reduce water production, and measure and monitor water content in real-time optimize reservoir sweep capitalizing on existing during oil and gas extraction, enhancing reservoir assets. This technology reduces costs by optimizing management capabilities. This technology reduces recovery, and asset utilization.
energy consumption, water consumption, and lowers operational costs.
Policy: Policies restricting or banning use - Informing our business decision-making by accounting for of fossil fuels, or applying a cost on carbon climate-related demand scenarios and implementing GHG mitigation initiatives, building upon our competitive advantage of having one of the lowest upstream carbon intensities among our peers Technology: Adoption of disruptive - Accelerated development of our technology portfolios, including technologies and/or slow development synthetic fuels, lower-carbon hydrogen production, liquids-to-chemicals, of GHG mitigation technologies and CCUS technologies Market: Loss of demand for hydrocarbons - Diversification into lower carbon products with longer lifecycles, as customers move to achieve their e.g., chemicals and materials supporting the energy transition GHG targets Modified gas treatment plant shutdown Managing our water production during oil extraction Legal: Potential exposure to climate-related - Accurate and transparent reporting and disclosures with independent litigation assurance procedure with flaring minimization patent Aramco s Nanosilica fluid blocks porous reservoir rocks, reducing unwanted water production in depleted The Wasit gas plant has developed a patent-pending Reputation: Impact on corporate reputation - Stakeholder engagement, including independent external consultants reservoirs. This cost-effective, sustainable solution batch process to reduce flaring by halting the sour gas and subject matter experts to advise on reporting and disclosures, and minimizes corrosion and energy use for fluid separation, feed during shutdowns, while sweet and acid gas explain the Company s energy transition pathway treatment, and disposal, improving efficiency in oil processing continues until pressure equalizes with the production, even in high-salinity environments.
downstream header. This technology reduces the need for flaring by managing gas pressures more efficiently.
Slim electric submersible pumps Aramco geomechanics expert reservoir We deploy multilateral observation wells and slim management software electric submersible pumps in our field operations Aramco s in-house geomechanics software predicts to reduce environmental impact. Additionally, our optimal mud weights, cutting non-productive time fully instrumented fields equipped with real-time by 45%. In 2024, new modules breakdown pressure, data capabilities enable remote monitoring and AI caliper, and liner deformation further enhanced optimization across our facilities, resulting in reduced fracking operations in gas developments. This carbon emissions and enhanced protection of marine technology reduces costs in gas developments.
ecosystems. This technology improves performance, and reduces energy consumption.
1. For more details, view the Managing Risk Exposure section of the Aramco Annual Report 2024.
26 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 27
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Achieving our net-zero ambition Our roadmap towards net-zero 2030 2035 2050 8.6 7.7 Net-zero Reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 Reduce our upstream Achieve our net-zero Scope 1 upstream carbon intensity carbon intensity (Scope 1 and and Scope 2 GHG emissions
(market-based) to 8.6 kg COe/boe Scope 2) to 7.7 kg COe/boe ambition across our wholly2 2 or below or below using market-based owned operated assets methodology, and achieve a 15% reduction in upstream carbon intensity from our 2018 baseline by 2035 GHG emissions Upstream carbon intensity Aramco focuses on what it can directly control operational A key metric is the carbon intensity of our upstream Our levers to lower our emissions emissions (i.e. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions across our operations, which stands among the lowest when compared wholly-owned operated assets). Additionally, the Company is to major crude oil producers. This lower-carbon intensity To achieve our net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions ambition, investing heavily in technologies, fuels, and partnerships that is achieved through the use of advanced technologies and and our interim targets, we have identified five key levers.
enable emissions reductions across the energy value chain. innovative practices.
We plan to mitigate 52 MMtCOe annually from our business-as-usual forecast emissions by 2035 In 2024, our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based) Our upstream carbon intensity rose by 1.0% due to higher GHG emissions across our wholly-owned operated assets gas production as Aramco aims to increase sales gas Energy Flaring and Carbon capture Renewables Natural climate increased by 1.8%, equivalent to 1.2 MMtCOe, compared production capacity by more than 60% by 2030 compared efficiency methane and storage solutions and to the previous year. Scope 1 emissions increased by 3.1% to 2021 production levels (subject to domestic demand and offsets 7 1 14 compared to 2023, mainly due to an increase in gas inclusive of pre-FID (Final Investment Decision) projects not 14 production and operations. Scope 2 emissions (market- yet announced) to meet the Kingdom s growing domestic 16 based) decreased by 4.6% compared to the previous year, demand. Producing gas is more energy and carbonprimarily due to the decrease in grid emission factors for intensive; however, it serves as a lower-emission fuel Five key levers 2021 2035 power and steam generation. alternative for the power sector when replacing liquid fuels.
Gas storage, which began in 2023 and continues in 2024,
)desab-tekram( In 2024, we completed bottom-up assessments of our assets maertspu affects our upstream carbon intensity. The gas that is to better identify and prioritize opportunities to meet our produced and stored is excluded from the marketed 2050 and interim climate targets. These assessments are 9.7 ,1 hydrocarbon volume, increasing our upstream carbon intensity.
9.1 supported by ongoing efforts, including energy optimization 2 8.6 epocS 7.7 and energy efficiency.
ytisnetni
)eob/eOC dna 1 2 nobrac Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (market-based) Upstream carbon intensity (market-based) epocS gk( (million metric tons of COe) (kg COe/boe) 2 2 2024 68.5 2024 9.7 2018 2024 2030 target 2035 target baseline 67.3 9.6 2023 2023 2022 66.0 2022 9.3 This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section of our website.
1. Our upstream carbon intensity (market-based) has risen during the year and is expected to rise over the next few years as we support the Kingdom lowering its GHG emissions by providing more gas for energy production. However, as our levers continue to advance (e.g., Jubail CCS hub starts sequestering Aramco s emissions from 2028 This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section onwards), our upstream carbon intensity performance is expected to improve to enable us to meet our interim targets and longer-term net-zero ambition. of our website.
28 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 29
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Levers to meet our interim 2024 progress towards Carbon capture our planned initiatives and storage - Signed shareholders agreement with targets and net-zero ambition Linde and SLB for the development Developing a competitive, of phase one of Jubail CCS hub with market leading CCS a capacity to capture and store nine business.
million metric tons of CO per year with six million metric tons allocated for GHG emissions To mitigate 52 MMtCO e from our business-as-usual forecast emissions by 2035, we are focusing on five key 2 Aramco and three million metric tons levers: energy efficiency across Upstream and Downstream assets; further reductions in methane emissions mitigation by 2035 for non-Aramco facilities, by 2028.
and flaring; increased renewable energy production capacity; carbon capture and storage; and natural
- The site preparation and early works climate solutions and offsets. 14 MMtCO e 2 have been completed and major Our GHG emissions reduction roadmap is articulated around our five key levers. The levers are continuously engineering, procurement, and monitored and reviewed to track progress and update the mix of abatement opportunities. This ensures they construction contracts have been remain appropriate and relevant in response to technological advancements, evolving regulatory standards, F or more details, awarded.
and to optimize cost and capitalize on synergies. see page 39 2024 progress towards 2024 progress towards Renewables Energy efficiency our planned initiatives our planned initiatives Improving the energy Capitalizing on efficiency of our Upstream advantaged solar 1,243 4.2 MMBtu/hr GW and Downstream assets. and wind resources ac Permanent energy savings that equals in-Kingdom. Of installed operational renewable 0.57 MMtCOe avoided power GHG emissions mitigation by 2035 GHG emissions - Reached full capacity production mitigation by 2035 101 of 1,500 MW at Sudair solar plant, ac 7 6 0 0 M W a t Al S h u ai b a h 1 p ro j e c t, MMtCO e Implemented energy efficiency initiatives a c 2 14 MMtCO e a n d 2,0 6 0 M W a t A l S h u ai b a h 2 1 ac project.
- Achieved financial close for Haden, Muwayh, and Al-Khushaybi solar projects with a combined capacity of 5.5 GW .
ac For more details, F or more details, see pages 32-33 see page 40 2024 progress towards 2024 progress towards Flaring and Natural climate our planned initiatives our planned initiatives methane solutions and 7,319 513,103 Reducing our upstream MMscf offsets flaring and methane Total avoided flaring through Carbon credits retired against Planting mangroves, and intensities even further.
flare gas recovery systems corporate emissions, and 1.1 million finding ways to offset carbon credits purchased hard-to-abate emissions.
GHG emissions 0.04
% mitigation by 2035 12.5 GHG emissions million Upstream m ethane intensity mitigation by 2035 1 Mangroves planted MMtCO e 16 MMtCO e For more details, F or more details, see pages 34 and 36 see page 41 1. The Al Shuaibah 2 project has been granted the Commercial Operation Certificate in February 2025.
30 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 31
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Energy efficiency actions in 2024 Energy efficiency Sustainability in action Process control and operational improvement
- Advanced process control: We use digital twins and Advanced digital solution to improve AI for smart daily operational monitoring of electrical Aramco s energy intensity in 2024 was 162.91 thousand Btu/ CHP performance submersible pumps to improve overall artificial lift energy boe, representing an increase of 5.9% compared to 2023 efficiency. Implemented across 330 electrical submersible Aramco has developed and deployed a digital solution In 2024: (153.81 thousand Btu/boe), attributable to increased gas pump wells, the initiative achieved a total of 70.8 GWh that supports its operating assets in optimizing operations that are more energy-intensive. In 2024, our total in power savings, equivalent to an 18% improvement, combined heat and power (CHP) systems.
oil production decreased, however, our gas production and 1,243 resulting in 48.5 MtCOe emission reduction.
MMBtu/hr 2 operations increased. Aramco plans to continue to increase The solution identifies the optimized combination of
- Boiler operation optimization: The Abqaiq plant, one its gas production to meet the Kingdom s growing domestic Permanent energy savings running boilers and cogeneration units to determine o f th e w o r l d s l a r ge st c r u d e o il st a b i l iz a t io n f a ci li ti e s , th a t e q u al 0.57 MMtCO e d e m a n d . A r am c o a im s to in c re a s e s a l e s g a s p r o d u c ti o n t h e o p tim u m l o a d i n g o f t h e s e u nits, reducing fuel 2 i m p ro v ed i t s s t e a m g e n e r a ti o n e f fi c i e n c y a n d d e c r e a s ed ca p a c it y b y m o re t h an 6 0 % b y 2 0 3 0 ( su b j e c t t o d o m e s ti c a v o i d e d c o n s u m pt io n a n d e x c e s s s t e a m .
the number of boilers in operation. This led to lower fuel demand and inclusive of pre-FID projects not yet gas consumption and fewer boiler start/stop cycles, announced) compared to 2021 production levels, subject In 2024, facilities improved their energy performance, resulting in a reduction of 202 MMBtu/hour. resulting in energy savings of 548 MMBtu/hr across to domestic demand. The growth in domestic gas demand is primarily driven by power generation, water desalination, - Converting excess steam to power: At the Shedgum gas 14 steam and power facilities.
petrochemical production, and other industrial consumption plant, a steam turbine generator was commissioned in the Kingdom. to convert previously wasted excess steam, which was Link to strategic enabler: vented or condensed, into useful electrical power. In 2024, During 2024, we implemented 101 energy-saving initiatives, this steam conversion by the turbine generated 68 GWh, Technology resulting in energy savings of 1,243 MMBtu/hr, and the reducing power generation needs from combustion.
avoidance of 0.57 MMtCOe. Since its inception in 2000, our
- Optimizing gas turbine operations: Aramco s Jeddah Energy Management Program has achieved 32 MMtCO e of cumulative emission reductions. terminal on the Red Sea stopped running one of its two combustion gas turbine generators (CGTG) by Energy efficiency is essential to maintain our cost- competitive introducing an emergency backup supply with Luberef, 2023 2022 position and support the reduction of emissions in our which reduced an equivalent of 75.2 MMBtu/hr in diesel operations. We focus on energy efficiency from procurement Energy intensity 153.8 146.2 fuel consumption.
and design to operations, including the electrification of
(thousand Btu/boe)1 - Automation improving cooling: The Shaybah natural gas oil and gas operations, and leveraging automation, digital plant automated its fin-fan system by using outlet Energy consumption 85,649 Metric not technologies, and innovation. Aramco continues to allocate temperature to control operations, saving 90 MMBtu/hr.
(MMBtu/hr) disclosed resources to improve its energy performance and efficiency previously - Utilizing tail gas as fuel: At the Jazan Refinery, tail gas was across its facilities.
redirected from venting to the fuel gas supply, reducing The Energy Management Steering Committee provides the need for fuel imports. This initiative decreased energy guidance and oversight, and is supported by a robust consumption by 318 MMBtu/hr and reduced tail gas energy management and performance improvement policy.
flaring.
Sustainability in action
- ISO 50001 certifications: In 2024, we increased the During 2024, energy efficiency considerations remained prominent in Aramco s procurement and design, as well number of ISO 50001 certified organizations for energy Advanced process control in our management systems to 43, up from 40 organizations as the Company s operations. Aramco s 2024 energy consumption was 88,091 MMBtu/hr, representing a slight in 2023.
Abqaiq plant increase of 2.9% compared to 2023 (85,649 MMBtu/hr). - Using electricity to produce blue hydrogen: The Shaybah Increments to our gas and downstream operations The Control Systems team at Abqaiq plant has Electrified Steam Methane Reformer demonstration developed an innovative soft sensor hybrid model that contributed to the increase in energy consumption which project seeks to lower CO emissions from gas turbine were needed to meet increasing gas demands. combines a neural network statistical model with the power generation by using electricity to heat natural gas process model to predict the real-time measurement and steam, producing hydrogen and CO . The hydrogen of ethane content (C2). This hybrid model offers is blended with the gas turbine feed, while the captured accurate and reliable real-time measurements of CO is injected underground. The project s front-end C2 without the need for maintenance. The real-time engineering design is complete, and detailed design is in 43 0.57 values from the C2 prediction models are integrated progress for a hydrogen production capacity of six metric MMtCO e 2 into advanced process control (APC) models to achieve tons per day (tpd).
Aramco organizations have Avoided emissions in 2024 real-time optimization (RTO), reduce process received the ISO 50001 from energy efficiency The cumulative implementation of energy efficiency variability, and operate processes closer to setpoints certification for their energy implemented initiatives measures has moderated the increase in our energy and constraints. This energy optimization initiative has management systems intensity, preventing an additional 1.4% rise in energy contributed to Abqaiq plant s energy savings, resulting consumption. Without these measures, our energy in a 1% reduction in energy intensity and a 0.5% consumption would have increased by 4.3% instead reduction in CO emissions for the facility.
of the actual 2.9%.
Link to strategic enabler: Energy efficiency initiatives Technology implemented in 2024 1. This metric is not applicable to our office-based entities: ATC, ASC, AOC, and SAAC.
32 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 33
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Flaring In 2024, Aramco s flaring intensity was 6.07 scf/boe, Flaring reduction initiatives in 2024 which represents a 7.6% increase compared to 2023. The
- Continued installation of flared gas recovery systems In 2024: increase is mainly due to increased gas operations and lower
(FGRS), a total of 13 FGRS have been installed up to this oil production.
Signatory to the date. The total recovered gas from our Upstream facilities 7,319 is 7,319 MMscf in 2024.
World Bank s Zero MMscf Routine Flaring by
- The Khursaniyah gas plant developed an innovative Total avoided flaring through Flaring intensity1 2030 initiative operational strategy to optimize plant feed during flare gas recovery systems
(scf/boe) scheduled outages, preventing flaring and emissions.
Volume of hydrocarbon gas flared per barrel of oil equivalent This approach avoided 76 MMscf of flaring by mitigating produced potential plant feed bottlenecks during natural gas liquids train outages.
2024 6.07
- The Berri gas plant reduced planned flaring by 65% in 2023 5.64 2024, cutting 16 MMscf, through innovative procedures like gas recovery and refrigerant management, leading 2022 4.60 to a 3.6 MtCOe reduction.
- The Haradh gas plant maintained its flaring below 7%, which resulted in saving 68 MMscf of fuel gas. This was Flared gas1 achieved by optimizing its flare gas recovery system and
(MMscf) reducing leaks.
Volume of hydrocarbon gas flared
- The Wasit gas plant achieved zero flaring during five gas Flaring can be classified into three categories: planned Aramco s flare minimization program has asset-level short-, treatment unit shutdowns by implementing an innovative flaring, routine flaring, and nonroutine flaring, each with medium-, and long-term mitigation measures which have 2024 28,846 measure and maximizing flare gas recovery, thereby distinct purposes. Planned flaring is scheduled in advance the potential to further reduce gas flaring. These include: 2023 27,506 avoiding approximately 10 MMscf of flaring per train s for shutdowns/startups and turnarounds, and system
- Flare gas recovery systems; shutdown and a total of 50 MMscf.
testing, to safely dispose of hydrocarbons. Efforts are being 2022 23,818
- Flare purge optimization; undertaken to minimize planned emissions. Routine flaring - Aramco facilities achieved progress in reducing flaring is the continuous or regular flaring due to operational - Annual control valves leakage survey/leak rectification; through the implementation of the pipeline flaring design. Aramco aims to reduce routine flaring through minimization protocol and new sectional isolation
- Synchronization of maintenance and annual turnaround improved flared gas recovery and capture. technologies. These initiatives enhanced operational activities; and efficiency and reduced environmental impact by Nonroutine flaring, on the other hand, occurs due to
- Optimization of cooling requirements in operating improving control and isolation within pipelines.
unexpected operational issues. We aim to reduce this distillation facilities to avoid flaring.
flaring through improved operational reliability and predictive maintenance.
Flaring is a necessary process to ensure the safety of oil Sustainability in action Sustainability in action and gas processing facilities. The challenge is to develop solutions that maintain safety and asset integrity while Digital innovation at North Ghawar Oil Using nitrogen to reduce flaring reducing flaring.
Mixing hydrocarbons with nitrogen for purge gas Producing Complex Aramco is a signatory to the World Bank s Zero Routine reduces the need to flare combustible gases after The North Ghawar Oil Producing Complex has purging.
Flaring by 2030 initiative. Ahead of 2030, we continue leveraged advanced digital solutions, including AI to achieve one of the lowest flaring levels compared to and machine learning, to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 A flare gas optimization by utilizing nitrogen project industry peers, despite our increase in gas operations.
undertaken by Aramco s North Ghawar Producing emissions by over 8% per barrel and increase oil Behind these low numbers is the Company s decades production by the same percentage. These sites, saw an annual reduction of continuous gas of investments in operational, engineering, and flaring in 2024 by around 70% (115 MMscf) compared technologies have been used to predict and prevent digital solutions.
flaring events, optimize energy use, and reduce to the prior year.
processing resources and costs. These achievements have earned the facility the Advanced 4IR Global Lighthouse designation by the World Economic Forum, marking Aramco s fifth such recognition.
Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: Upstream preeminence Upstream Technology preeminence This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section of our website.
34 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 35
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Methane Aramco continues to advance its GHG emissions monitoring Upstream methane intensity and mitigation capabilities through innovative technological
(%) In 2024: By 2030: solutions. In 2024, the Company initiated assessment studies Achieve near-zero for two emerging technologies to evaluate their effectiveness 2024 0.04 and potential for enterprise-wide implementation.
0.04 upstream methane
% 2023 0.05 intensity (OGCI aspiration) Methane emissions from 2022 0.05 upstream operations per volume of marketed Infrared spectroscopy natural gas Upstream methane emissions Hawiyah Unayzah NGL plant implemented continuous
(metric tons of CH) methane monitoring utilizing Fourier Transform 2024 24,548 Infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy technology. This advanced imaging system has demonstrated a superior 2023 27,708 capability in leak detection and localization across 2022 29,193 complex industrial infrastructure and processing units.
In 2024, Aramco strengthened its methane emissions management through the development of the Methane Detection Aramco achieved an upstream methane intensity of 0.04% and Minimization Program (MDMP). This initiative aims to reduce Aramco s upstream methane intensity in alignment with in 2024, despite the expansion of gas operations and the OGCI near-zero methane emissions target. increased requirements for gas compression. Aramco successfully reduced upstream methane emissions by 11.4%, and achieved a 0.01 p.p. reduction in upstream methane intensity. The following highlights Aramco s progress in The MDMP framework is built upon four main pillars methane emissions minimization:
- Enhanced annual Leak Detection and Repair surveys with quarterly Optical Gas Imaging (OGI) campaigns to enable Detection Governance Digitalization Minimization early leak detection and timely repairs, targeting fugitive emissions reduction.
Laser absorption spectroscopy
- Expanded partnership with GHGSat to enhance satellite monitoring coverage across upstream facilities, enabling At Riyadh Refinery, we deployed drone-mounted more frequent observations and providing operators Tunable Diode Laser Absorption Spectroscopy with real-time data for effective methane leak detection technology for comprehensive methane emissions and prevention.
management. This system demonstrated capabilities
- Enhanced methane reporting accuracy and transparency in mapping elevated methane concentration zones, through revised methodologies, particularly for pipeline identifying specific emission sources, quantifying operations emissions estimation. Implemented a emissions at facility and equipment cluster levels, and Enhanced methane Advancing from Deployed digital Conducted detailed corporate-level upstream methane intensity KPI, with evaluating flare combustion efficiency parameters.
emissions monitoring emission factors- platforms to optimize methane emissions 2024 upstream methane emissions and intensity data accuracy through based reporting to operational access to source analysis, independently verified by external parties.
deployment of direct measurement methane data and identifying key advanced detection methodologies, enhance emissions reduction - Launched two digital platforms: The Methane Monitoring Solution for equipment-level emissions tracking and technologies and supported by newly reporting transparency opportunities while industry-leading established methane implementing reporting across facilities, and the Methane Satellite Solution, which integrates satellite data within the 4IRC practice performance KPIs systematic leak and standardized detection, repair framework to alert facilities of detected methane emissions.
quantification protocols, and protocols corrective measures This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section of our website. of our website.
36 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 37
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Carbon capture and storage Aramco is transitioning from industry-standard emission factors to direct measurement-based methane emissions reporting Assessment of carbon capture and storage potential for upstream operations. Following a comprehensive 2024 emissions review, the Company has developed an implementation In 2024, we continued conducting site screenings and plan utilizing proven technologies, including flow meters, predictive emissions monitoring systems, and multispectral infrared viability assessments for potential CO storage sinks.
cameras, to enhance measurement accuracy and reduce emissions uncertainty.
- Mineralization project in Jazan: In collaboration with KAUST, CO is dissolved in water and injected into volcanic minerals, converting it into stable carbonate rocks.
- CO Nanobubbles: Trials in 2024 showed increased CO 2 2 utilization and faster mineralization compared to Methane guardian from above: an traditional technologies.
- Mobile CO Mineralization Unit: Working with Caox1; Aramco corporate satellite methane to create a unit with a 400-ton annual capacity.
monitoring campaign
- Collaboration with Hong Kong Polytechnic: Focused on Satellite technology has emerged as a transformative economic leaching, producing higher-value byproducts, and transforming CO into oilfield chemicals.
tool in methane emissions management for the oil and gas industry. The GHGSat constellation s advanced
- Cyclone carbon capture technology: Developing sensors can detect methane emissions as low as a demonstration with Carbon Clean Solutions at the 100 kg/hour, enabling precise leak identification Hawiyah Unayzah NGL facility.
across remote infrastructure including pipelines, wells, and processing facilities. This technology enhances operational efficiency in emissions reduction and environmental performance monitoring.
The Company is investing in CCS capabilities and is In 2024, Aramco expanded its methane monitoring developing, drilling, and evaluating sub-surface CO Sustainability in action capabilities through an enhanced partnership with storage assets across the Kingdom.
GHGSat, deploying satellite monitoring across Commissioning of Direct Air In 2024, Aramco partnered with Linde and SLB to jointly 30 major upstream facilities. The GHGSat constellation develop Phase I of the Jubail CCS hub. This hub is expected grew from eight to 12 satellites during the year, Capture pilot plant in Dhahran to be able to capture and store nine million metric tons of enabling monthly facility observations. Through I n 2 0 2 4 , A ra m co c o m m i s s i o n e d a p il o t D A C u n it in C O a n n u a ll y b y 2 0 2 8 , w i t h s i x m i l l i o n m e t ri c to n s a ll o c ated i m p le m en ta t i o n o f a r a p i d r e s p o n se p r o t o c o l , a l l 2 D h a h r a n , m a rk in g t he f i r s t o f it s k in d i n th e re g i o n .
f o r A r a m c o a n d t h r e e m i l l io n m e t r i c to ns f o r o th e r n o n - d e te ct ed m e t h a n e r e l e a s e s i n 2 0 24 w e r e s u c c e s s f ully This unit serves as a testing platform for nextAramco facilities. The site preparation and early works has investigated and mitigated.
generation CO capture materials. It represents been completed and major engineering, procurement, and a crucial step in testing and validation before construction contracts are being awarded. The CCS hub transitioning to larger-scale DAC facilities in the future.
supports Aramco s blue hydrogen and ammonia program and aligns with the Kingdom s aim to achieve net-zero emissions by 2060.
Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: Aramco plans to meet its CO capture ambitions through Lower-carbon 2 Technology several initiatives: initiatives
- Collaboration and innovation: Partnering with KAUST for novel CO geological sequestration using in-situ Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: mineralization.
- Partnerships: Collaborating with Siemens Energy to Upstream Technology preeminence develop a DAC unit in Dhahran.
- Aramco Ventures investments via Aramco s Sustainability Fund.
1. For more information: Caox, 2024.
38 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 39
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Renewables Natural climate solutions and offsets Voluntary carbon markets Beyond offsetting corporate emissions, Aramco used carbon credits to offset emissions from crude oil shipments to In 20241: deliver certified carbon neutral cargo. In 2023, we launched In 2024: a strategic initiative for a pilot project to deliver Arabian Light crude oil with a product level carbon intensity and 4.2 513,103 1.1 GW million an emissions management plan in line with PAS2060 using ac a cradle-to-gate partial life-cycle assessment approach; Total operational Carbon credits retired Carbon credits purchased capacity of renewable the first of its kind in the Middle East. In 2024, Aramco against corporate emissions progressed to calculate the carbon intensity of five energy additional Arabian Light crude oil shipments, verified by a third-party. After demonstrating progress in asset-level Aramco supports the use of nature-based climate solutions and market mechanisms that promote sustainable emission reduction initiatives, Aramco retired 92,559 tCO e carbon credits, with 75% being from removal-based projects, development. These market mechanisms are tools to facilitate emissions removals, reductions, and offsets of to offset the residual emissions from these shipments from our Ras Tanura and Juaymah terminals with a total volume its hard-to-abate GHG emissions.
of 10 million bbl. All credits were rated at least BB by Aramco voluntary carbon market leadership independent agencies, supporting their environmental In 2024, Aramco procured 1.1 million tons of carbon credits integrity and alignment with globally accepted standards.
from Saudi Arabia s Voluntary Carbon Market (VCM) auction Natural climate solutions on the exchange platform launched by VCM during COP29 Actions that protect, sustainably manage, and restore natural in Baku.
and modified ecosystems are natural climate solutions.
The credits directed vital funding to climate projects Aramco has set the ambition to plant 300 million mangroves requiring finance, supporting the Kingdom s ambition to Aramco is actively developing a renewables portfolio to in Saudi Arabia. This initiative is part of the Company s reduce GHG emissions from its operations and enhance Sustainability in action establish one of the largest global voluntary carbon markets broader environmental efforts to restore natural ecosystems, by 2030. The Aramco credits adhered to stringent quality long-term business value, aligning with its ambition to enhance wildlife habitats, and contribute to carbon dioxide achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions across standards and the basket of credits supported 17 climate Advancing renewable energy storage capture and storage.
projects in countries such as Bangladesh, Brazil, Ethiopia, wholly-owned operated assets by 2050. In 2024, and as part of this effort, financial closure has been achieved on three for hot climates Malaysia, Pakistan, and Vietnam.
In 2024, we planted approximately 12.5 million mangroves solar projects: Haden, Muwayh, and Al Khushaybi, with a in the Kingdom, bringing the Company s cumulative total of Energy storage systems complement the intermittent Aramco also acquired durable removal credits supporting combined capacity of 5.5 GW . These projects are expected ac generation by renewable resources to help maintain carbon storage technology in construction materials and planted mangroves to more than 43 million. The third-party to commence commercial operations by 2027. assessed total carbon stock of the planted and existing continuous and reliable power output. Flow batteries biochar production.
offer long-term energy storage that is both scalable mangroves is equal to approximately 466,697 metric tons Sudair One Renewables Company, Aramco s first renewables Carbon credits retirement of CO e.
and reliable for continuous energy supply, and joint venture (JV) with its partners PIF and ACWA Power, is 2 Aramco has developed heat-tolerant flow batteries. In 2024, Aramco retired 513,103 carbon credits to offset already supplying its full capacity of 1.5 GW to the national ac corporate emissions. These credits included a mix of grid, while the second JV, Al Shuaibah 1 Solar Photovoltaic The enhanced iron and vanadium mixed acid flow nature-based projects, like mangrove and forest restoration, project, is delivering its full capacity of 600 MW . More ac battery withstands temperatures over 55 C and can and technology-based initiatives, such as landfill gas capture recently, Al Shuaibah 2 has reached its full capacity production be utilized in hot climates without the need for In 2024: and reducing gas leakages.
of 2.06 GW . Aramco plans to utilize its allocation of RECs ac cooling costs. The technology behind the Aramco from these investments to offset its Scope 2 emissions battery has been laboratory validated, piloted at 12.5 related to power supplied to its operations.
scale, and the unit is currently installed to demonstrate million The Company is seeking further opportunities to advance its ability to meet the technical requirements in the Mangroves planted field environment.
its renewable energy initiatives. Aramco s research centers in-Kingdom are developing technologies for geothermal applications.
Efforts include an integrated subsurface-to-surface digital Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: resource evaluation platform, AI-based temperature Lower-carbon predictions, and a geomechanical assessment of potential Technology initiatives wellbore failures.
The Company is currently assessing geothermal potential along Saudi Arabia s west coast, and complementing this work by developing geothermal modeling capabilities in our in-house advanced reservoir simulator, GIGAPowers.
This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section 1. This includes operational capacity of Al Shuaibah 2 project that has been granted the Commercial Operation Certificate in February 2025. of our website.
40 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 41
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Spotlight Aramco completes five verified carbon offset crude cargo shipments Third-party verified offsetting projects Building on the success of the 2023 pilot project to deliver A total of 92,559 tCOe carbon credits were offset to the first verified carbon offset crude cargo, in 2024, we counter the pilot shipment s residual emissions. Of these Country Project name and description Project type Quantity (metric ton of COe) have progressed on this strategic capability to deliver offsets, 75% originated from carbon removal projects, Arabian Light with five additional verified carbon offset while 25% came from carbon avoidance projects, all China crude oil cargo shipments from our Ras Tanura and issued by Verra and Gold Standard. Independent rating Juaymah terminals. agencies rated these projects BB or higher, showcasing our efforts in financing valuable offset projects and Using a cradle-to-gate life-cycle assessment, third-party reducing GHG emissions. Lloyds Register Quality verified product-level carbon emissions, and implementing Assurance (LRQA) conducted third-party verification, GHG emissions reduction initiatives with the optional use and the Qualifying Explanatory Statement is available of offsets for residual emissions, demonstrates the online. The carbon credits were sourced from the Saudi Company s capability to deliver lower-emission products.
Voluntary Carbon Market with projects spanning various India The average carbon intensity of the five shipments was scopes and types across regions ranging from North 7.48 kg COe/boe of which the production and loading America to Asia.
stages were 2.95 kg COe/boe for the Ras Tanura 2 The next entity in the value chain of this pilot, Motiva s terminal, and 2.56 kg CO e/boe for the Juaymah 2 Port Arthur Manufacturing Complex, made progress terminal, with the remainin g emissions attributed to in their measurement of the product-level emissions shipping. The total volume of Arabian Light crude oil of their base oils production by undergoing third-party shipments is 10 million bbl (five cargos of two million verification against ISO 14067. This pilot project reaffirms bbl each).
Aramco s efforts to deliver third-party verified lower- Panama After implementing GHG emissions reduction initiatives carbon products.
in Arabian Light crude production facilities, Aramco retired carbon credits purchased from the VCM1 to offset residual emissions.
This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Lower-carbon Sustainability section of our website.
Technology 1. For more information: VCM, 2024. initiatives USA Vietnam 7.48 2.95 2.56 kg CO e/boe kg CO e/boe kg CO e/boe 2 2 2 Average carbon intensity Average carbon intensity Average carbon intensity of the five shipments for production and for production and loading This figure loading stage for the stage for the Juaymah terminal The assurance Ras Tanura terminal 42 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 43
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Synthetic fuels Global trends indicate a gradual increase in SAF production, Providing customers with with challenges such as limited feedstock options and Compared to conventional fuels, synthetic fuels have the high costs affecting scalability2. In 2024, SAF accounted for potential to reduce CO emissions from existing ICE vehicles 0.53% of jet fuel usage, with most production still in pilot by at least 70% on a lifecycle basis.
lower-emissions solutions phases, requiring significant investment and impacting Synthetic fuels are an area of focus for Aramco. In 2024: manufacturing margins. SAF costs are currently 120% to 700% higher than conventional jet fuel3, presenting
- Aramco started construction of two synthetic fuel financial challenges in the competitive aviation industry.
demonstration plants in Bilbao (Spain) and NEOM (Saudi There is also uncertainty regarding SAF offtake agreements Arabia), with expected completion in 2027. These facilities A vibrant, affordable, and reliable transport sector is In one such effort, Aramco, along with a European and policy support for future production.
will focus on producing synthetic diesel and gasoline, essential for the growth of any economy, particularly in powertrain company, is working on developing a novel de-risking and paving the way for larger investments. Aramco s LCAF provides a cost-effective, sustainable emerging economies facing increasing populations and optimized hybrid engine that is designed to run on lower-
- Aramco developed a novel technology for the direct solution to help the aviation industry, a hard-to-abate sector, urbanization. The transportation sector accounts for carbon fuel to reduce emissions.
reduce carbon emissions and advance toward its net-zero production of synthetic fuels, specifically focusing on approximately 30%1 of global energy demand and close In another project, Aramco is co-developing the Turbulent sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). This new technology goals. LCAF is a drop-in fuel that reduces overall emissions to a quarter of global energy-related CO emissions.
2 Jet Ignition (TJI) technology for the next generation of and requires no modifications to existing fueling will enable the direct production of synthetic fuels from Consequently, the energy transition necessitates a mobility hybrid powertrains. The optimized TJI prechamber, CO and green hydrogen, thereby improving the economic infrastructure. Our in-Kingdom refineries produce CORSIAtransition, which focuses on reducing the energy and carbon integrated into a light-duty hybrid engine, demonstrated compliant fuel, and we are working with independent efficiency of the process.
intensity across all modes of transport, including air, land, it can achieve a 3% increase in efficiency. third-parties for audits and certifications to ensure our and sea. - Aramco is studying the feasibility of integrating products meet ISO standards for lower-carbon emissions.
CO -derived feedstock in existing operating assets to In 2024, Aramco strengthened its collaboration with Addressing the energy trilemma ensuring affordability, produce synthetic fuels. This sets a new baseline for top car manufacturers to advance lower-emission vehicle The demand for air travel is expected to double by 2040, security, and sustainability will require a multifaceted scalable and efficient production of synthetic fuels, technologies by finalizing the acquisition of a 10% equity growing at an annual average rate of 3.4%4. While SAF approach. This includes the development of next-generation leveraging Aramco s global operations to contribute stake in HORSE Powertrain Limited. This partnership, is a technically viable option, it remains costly and is internal combustion engines (ICEs), hybrids, and lowertowards the transition to lower-carbon fuels.
alongside Renault S.A.S., Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. produced in limited quantities compared to LCAF. LCAF carbon fuels, as well as investment in future technologies Ltd., and Geely Automobile Holdings Limited, aims to stands out as a viable solution because it can be produced such as hydrogen-based mobility. Lower-carbon aviation fuels support the global development of affordable, efficient, and implemented more readily. It is positioned to satisfy Aramco recognizes that an energy transition plan has to Our efforts in providing customers with lower-emission and lower-emission ICEs. this growing demand and simultaneously achieve reductions consider the needs of all of society, especially developing solutions begins with our lower upstream carbon intensity in carbon emissions within the aviation sector.
Hydrogen-based mobility and emerging economies. LCAF supports transition plans crude. We leverage this advantage to produce lower-carbon For instance, converting five billion liters of LCAF at Aramco is collaborating with global manufacturers to at an acceptable cost, facilitating energy security and fuels.
affordability in the aviation industry that is integral to the 80 gCO /MJ could provide the equivalent GHG emissions advance the development of hydrogen technologies and their Fuels and transportation technologies reduction of about one billion liters of SAF at 45 gCO /MJ5.
use in mobility. The Company recently kickstarted the testing global economy, and to connecting societies and families1.
Aramco continues exploring the development of synthetic of a heavy-duty natural gas engine platform using natural fuels that generate lower GHG emissions, while maintaining gas and hydrogen blends (including up to 100% hydrogen).
the same levels of performance. Our lower-carbon intensity This effort brings together the technology of a global engine Sustainability in action crude oils, along with our investments in GHG emissions manufacturer and Aramco s expertise in the transport and reduction initiatives in our refineries, support the production fuel technologies. Pursuing lower-carbon ISO certification of lower-carbon fuels and feedstocks.
Leveraging an experimental natural gas and hydrogen Aramco is advancing its goal to become a certified We are also continuing our efforts to improve the efficiency blending facility at Aramco s Detroit Research Center, producer of LCAF, having achieved ISO certification for of the ICE, which can have a direct effect on the transportation experiments are being designed to identify the combustion lower-carbon intensity at four in-Kingdom facilities. As sector s GHG emissions.
system tolerance, and technical requirements for natural gas the aviation industry increases SAF production, LCAF Improving engine efficiency and hydrogen blends.
serves as a complementary, fossil-based solution that utilizes existing infrastructure to help the industry meet We recognize that achieving successful GHG emissions In the light duty sector, Aramco is co-developing a hydrogen mitigation of the automotive industry calls for a combination of its carbon neutrality goals.
combustion engine with a leading European powertrain various technologies, and we are exploring ways to improve company. Both entities will closely collaborate to enhance the efficiency of the ICE, and hybrid electric technologies.
the efficiency and performance of a hydrogen ICE, through Computational Fluid Dynamic (CFD) simulations aimed To effectively reduce GHG emissions from transportation, at optimizing the combustion system design, followed it is relevant to invest in enhancing the efficiency of ICE Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: by testing in real-world conditions.
vehicles, considering they will still constitute a significant portion of the global light-duty vehicle fleet in 20502.
Aramco is collaborating with a luxury sports car manufacturer Lower-carbon Technology initiatives Through its global research centers, Aramco, in collaboration to develop a high-performance hydrogen engine for sports cars. Over the next three years, the focus will be on with leading powertrain companies, is developing innovative transportation technologies that can contribute hydrogen combustion and testing to develop a hydrogen engine with top power density. Aramco will use its expertise towards an energy transition in the transportation sector.
to help improve efficiency, reduce tank size, and achieve lower emissions.
1. The Current, 2024.
2. Energy Digital, 2024.
3. Science Direct, 2024.
1. International Renewable Energy Agency. 4. For more information: International Air Transport Association (IATA), 2023.
2. United States Environmental Protection Agency, 2025. 5. For more information: International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), 2023.
44 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 45
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Blue hydrogen and ammonia The growth of this portfolio depends on demand for Using natural gas for power generation Key natural gas achievements during 2024 include: lower-carbon hydrogen and ammonia, and Aramco is Aramco continues to develop its production capacity for Aramco is playing a pivotal role in Saudi Arabia s efforts to
- Jafurah unconventional gas basin, one of the largest continuing its efforts to secure long-term demand in the lower-carbon hydrogen as part of its ambition to expand diversify its energy mix and reduce reliance on liquid fuels liquid-rich shale gas plays in the Middle East, spanning Kingdom and internationally. These efforts have included its new energies portfolio. Aramco acquired a 50% equity for power generation. In 2024, Aramco generated 5.3 GW 17,000 km2 between the Ghawar oil field and the Arabian bilateral discussions and the signing of several indicative interest in the Jubail-based Blue Hydrogen Industrial Gases of power through its captive power plants. 4.3 GW were Gulf, holds an estimated 229 trillion cubic feet of rich raw agreements in principle with potential customers in Company (BHIG), a wholly-owned subsidiary of APQ, that used to meet internal demand, and 0.7 GW of spill power gas. Design, procurement, and construction activities Saudi Arabia, Asia, and the EU. Aramco is also phasing the is expected to produce lower-carbon hydrogen that would was transferred to the national grid. Aramco s cogeneration continued at the Jafurah gas plant during 2024, with development opportunities for its lower-carbon hydrogen facilitate GHG mitigation efforts of local industries in the systems boost energy efficiency by capturing and using heat phase one expected to commence production in 2025.
portfolio in line with market demand.
Jubail area. that traditional power generation would typically waste, Phase two development is currently under way.
Natural gas thereby reducing emissions and operational expenses.
Other investments and development opportunities are - As the world continues on its energy transition journey, These systems not only generate electricity for Aramco s being evaluated to position the Company as both a leading Natural gas provides more efficient power and is less Aramco anticipates strong demand-led growth for operations and the national grid, but also enhance energy exporter of blue ammonia and local provider of lower- emissions-intensive than other conventional forms of Liquified Natural Gas (LNG). Aramco announced its entry self-sufficiency and support broader sustainability carbon hydrogen, with an aim to serve early market demand nonrenewable energy such as coal and oil. into the global LNG business in 2023 when it acquired ambitions, positioning them as an effective solution for and future GHG mitigation needs starting in 2028. The a minority stake in MidOcean Holdings II, L.P.
Aramco has large high-quality gas reserves and exclusive energy production. This initiative supports the Kingdom s development of our lower-carbon ammonia portfolio is ( MidOcean ), which in turn owns MidOcean Energy, LLC access to the Kingdom s growing domestic marketplace. Liquid Displacement Program, which aims to replace being phased in line with market demand. While continuing ( MidOcean Energy ). MidOcean Energy is an LNG The Company s strategy includes growing its sales gas approximately one million barrels of oil equivalent per day early engineering work to enable the production of up to company, formed and managed by EIG Global Energy production capacity by potentially more than 60% by 2030 (MMboed) of liquids with sales gas, renewable energy 11 MMtpa as the market evolves, the Company currently Partners with the objective of building a long-term compared to its 2021 production levels, subject to domestic deployment, and efficiency improvements by 2030.
targets to produce up to 2.5 MMtpa of lower-carbon LNG portfolio. In 2024, Aramco increased its stake demand and inclusive of pre-FID projects not yet announced.
ammonia by 2030, subject to the availability of commercially The Master Gas System Phase III Expansion (MGS III) is an in MidOcean.
Increased gas production is expected to come from Aramco s viable long-term offtake contracts. essential component of Aramco s strategy to grow its sales
- Aramco s gas strategy aims to support the Kingdom s associated, nonassociated, and unconventional tight gas production capacity. It enhances the gas supply capacity economic growth and diversification, which includes gas basins.
to the central and western regions and extends the network reducing liquid burning for domestic power generation to the southern region. This expansion not only supplies gas and water desalination. In 2024, the Company to utility plants but also connects to 11 industrial clusters commenced production of gas stored in the Kingdom s across the Kingdom. This connectivity facilitates fuel first underground natural gas storage project. This stored switching, promotes industrial growth, and contributes to gas was previously injected into the depleted Unayzah gas lowering GHG emissions, aligning with the broader goals reservoir. Aramco s MGS is a gateway toward delivering of the Saudi Green Initiative.
gas-fired electricity to the Kingdom s utility plants and industrial facilities.
Sustainability in action Sustainability in action 0.7 GW Aramco s journey in blue ammonia and blue Powering Saudi Arabia s summer with gas Power supplied to In April 2024, Aramco launched the Hawiyah Unayzah Gas Reservoir Storage, hydrogen production the national grid Saudi Arabia s first gas storage facility, enhancing the Kingdom s lower-carbon energy Aramco has made progress in lower-carbon energy production. A prudent strategy capabilities. The facility features several environmental innovations, including the is being adopted in developing the Company s blue hydrogen and blue ammonia elimination of flaring during gas injection, advanced monitoring technologies such business, with a phased development approach that calibrates supply and market as gas leak detection in valves, and high-integrity pressure protection systems.
demand with optionality for early entry to establish a market leading position. Aramco Capitalizing on circular economy design that provides a circular mode of operation is also leveraging CCS technologies to advance its blue hydrogen and ammonia between injection and reproduction facilities in an accelerated response cycle, this production. Strategic partnerships, including the development of the Jubail CCS hub operational mode will eliminate the need for flaring during depressurization at the and a JV with Air Products Qudra (APQ), underscore Aramco s efforts to becoming injection facility, where the sales gas is injected into the gas reservoir or recycled back a leader in lower-carbon hydrogen production.
to the reproduction facility, then to the MGS for flexible operation. This supports Aramco s role in providing balance to the local sales gas network.
Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: Lower-carbon initiatives Technology Lower-carbon initiatives Technology 46 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 47
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Product diversification The materials transition recognizes the growing importance Aramco is advancing a number of initiatives along the value of advanced, durable, carbon-based materials in enabling chain, leveraging its strength as one of the world s largest the energy transition. These materials are essential for integrated energy and chemicals companies. As petrochemicals manufacturing technologies that help reduce emissions are expected to be the main driver of hydrocarbon demand such as wind turbines, solar panels, batteries, mobility in the years ahead, Aramco is investing in this sector to solutions, and the infrastructure that supports them. diversify into lower-emissions value chains.
This shift also involves moving away from materials with Analysis1 shows growing demand for advanced materials, high energy and carbon intensities toward alternatives with driven by the energy transition, which is already helping lower environmental impacts across their full lifecycle to reduce emissions. These materials enable more efficient Energy transition minerals This strategy not only enhances the efficiency and reliability from production, operation, use, and disposal. energy use, support lower-emission production pathways, of operations but also contributes to sustainability by and promote circular carbon economies. Renewable energy technologies require large amounts of reducing the energy intensity of installations and reducing critical minerals. Because current supply chains to process Aramco is also exploring how to cut the cost of carbon fiber corrosion-related issues.
Advanced materials and deliver these minerals are underdeveloped and lack manufacturing by at least 50% to support mass production, sufficient capital, Aramco and Ma aden are exploring critical The automotive industry is a large consumer of nonmetallic while developing polymer-based solutions for hydrogen minerals, including the extraction of lithium, an important products like carbon fiber reinforced plastic. Carbon storage tanks and electric vehicle battery enclosures.
The materials transition spans the full value chain of how mineral for energy storage. Aramco and Ma aden have fiber-based materials are lighter than steel, which results To accelerate the adoption of nonmetallic materials beyond we produce, use, and dispose of the foundational materials signed non-binding Heads of Terms to establish a JV for in less fuel consumption, better vehicle performance, and the oil and gas sector, Aramco collaborates with leading of the modern economy. Increasingly, hydrocarbons will minerals exploration and mining in Saudi Arabia, focusing lower emissions.
industry players including Aachen, GmbH, IBM, 4M, be used less for combustion, and more as feedstock for on energy transition minerals. With potential lithium and RPDC.
advanced materials that are vital to the energy transition. Aramco is deploying nonmetallic materials for the oil and production by 2027, the proposed JV aims to leverage gas industry, and we are deploying innovative nonmetallic Aramco s expertise, infrastructure, and geological data By replacing traditional, emissions-intensive materials like materials for the automotive, construction, packaging, to advance extraction technologies, maximize mineral steel and concrete, alternative materials can help reduce and renewable energy sectors, as well.
potential, and strengthen the Kingdom s position in the GHG emissions across key industries such as construction, global energy transition.
housing, transportation, infrastructure, and renewables. In 2024, Aramco furthered its adoption of advanced materials by: Deployment of advanced materials Nonmetallic solutions such as the development of
- Developing and deploying an advanced lower-carbon advanced polymer-based composites can address some of lifecycle composite pipe designed for high pressure the world s most pressing energy and materials challenges.
(1500 psi) and high temperature (200 F) operations for hydrocarbon transportation, which reduces corrosion risks, Aramco is involved in adopting advanced materials, and reduces emissions by 40-50% on a lifecycle basis.
particularly nonmetallic solutions, to meet future energy
- Advancing a new generation of engineered cementitious needs in a more sustainable way. These solutions leverage composite as a new concrete solution. This technology Aramco s extensive hydrocarbon resources and includes polymer fibers as reinforcements, and leads to technological capabilities.
lower emissions on a lifecycle basis.
In the oil and gas industry, nonmetallic solutions are
- Developing a novel lightweight composite rebar designed to reduce the corrosion, weight, and cost of technology to potentially replace steel rebars for metals. They include flowlines, downhole production pavement applications, which leads to a lower-carbon tubing, pumps, and cooling towers manufactured from emission on a lifecycle basis.
nonmetallic materials such as glass fiber reinforced
- Developing sensors in collaboration with KAUST, for polymers, and promote the material transition towards nonmetallic structural health monitoring and anomalies lower-carbon solutions, on a lifecycle basis. Aramco has detection at the Jazan Refinery complex.
been at the forefront of introducing nonmetallic solutions, including nonmetallic tubing and extensive installations - Announcing a strategic five-year Cooperation Framework of nonmetallic pipes such as reinforced thermoplastic pipe Agreement (CFA) with China National Building Material
(RTP) and reinforced thermosetting resin (RTR) pipes. (CNBM) Group. The agreement focuses on exploring The Company has installed more than 10,000 kilometers opportunities in advanced materials and industrial of nonmetallic pipes over the past five years, encompassing development.
a wide range of applications within both its conventional and unconventional assets. These nonmetallic materials are used in high-pressure oil, gas, and water systems, providing advantages in terms of corrosion resistance, faster installation times, and reduced lifecycle costs.
1. RystdadEnergy, 2024.
48 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 49
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Aramco continues to grow its petrochemicals sector.
Liquids-to-chemicals Key development areas include the following: Sustainability investments
- In 2024, Aramco, in collaboration with China Petroleum Aramco s petrochemicals business represents an extension and Chemical Corporation (SINOPEC) and Fujian Petrochemical Company Limited (FPCL), broke ground on of the hydrocarbon value chain. Within its global Downstream and engagement segment, the Company has an integrated petrochemicals a new integrated refining and petrochemical complex in Fujian Province, China. This greenfield project is expected business producing basic chemicals, such as aromatics, and polyolefins, and more complex products such as polyols, to be fully operational by the end of 2030. The facility is planned to have a 16 million tons-per-year oil refining and synthetic rubber.
Climate change external engagement To help mobilize the industry, OGCI is leading and unit (320,000 barrels per day), a 1.5 million tons-per-year co-funding the OGDC, an initiative through which Aramco intends to expand its integrated refining and Aramco is part of the OGCI, a CEO-led initiative consisting ethylene unit, a two million tons paraxylene and petrochemicals capacity and diversify its product offerings 56 companies representing approximately 45% of the global of 12 of the world s major energy companies, responsible downstream derivatives capacity, and a 300,000-ton oil production, share their experiences and collaborate to along the entire hydrocarbon value chain. Aramco intends for producing about one-third of global oil and gas. As an crude oil terminal. The project aims to maximize chemical to continue to grow its liquids-to-chemicals business, with accelerate their emissions reductions from their operations.
OGCI member, Aramco Ventures contribute to the $1 billion output and is expected to supply around five million tons a goal to increase its capacity in petrochemical producing Climate Investment Fund, the investment arm of the OGCI.
per year of feedstock to the Gulei Petrochemical Base. Research and development complexes to up to four million barrels per day by 2030.
Its mission is to achieve reductions in GHG emissions
- Aramco continues the construction of Shaheen The Company has established a policy to position itself as by investing in and promoting the market adoption of By the end of 2024, Aramco had achieved about 45% of this petrochemical project, in partnership with S-Oil. a leader in R&D, while actively participating in the Kingdom s innovations from our portfolio companies through goal, with plans for further capacity expansion ongoing.
The project is anticipated to transform crude oil into innovative ecosystems. In 2024, Aramco s sustainabilitya network of investors and global partnerships.
petrochemical feedstock, employing Aramco s TC2CTM related R&D spend2 was $623 million, which equated to 63% Petrochemical basic chemical building blocks are key to the technology, which was developed in partnership with The OGCI celebrated its 10-year anniversary in 2024. of total 2024 R&D spend2 of $996 million. The R&D spend energy transition because they are versatile and essential for CLG and Lummus Technology. Thermal Crude to Established in 2014 during the UN Climate Summit in New encompassed sustainability focused solutions to improve our sustainable technologies and modern infrastructure. They Chemicals (TC2CTM) simplifies the crude conversion York, OGCI has spent the past decade leading the oil and gas business operations and energy efficiency, enhance carbon support the development of renewable energy technologies, process compared to conventional crude oils to chemicals industry s approach to climate change. Since 2017, member circularity, as well as supporting the global energy transition.
advanced materials, and the circular carbon economy. They technologies while delivering higher chemical yields. companies have collectively reduced upstream methane In 2024, 26% of patents filed were related to sustainability also help reduce emissions from hard-to-abate industries by The construction, which began in 2023, is on track to emissions by 55%, cut routine flaring by 53%, and decreased technologies, an increase from the prior year (20% in 2023).
replacing more carbon-intensive products. Carbon-intensive be completed by 2026. The facility is expected to have upstream carbon intensity by 21%. Additionally, they have products are those that result in high levels of GHG the capacity to produce up to 3.2 million tons of invested collectively about $95.8 billion over the same emissions throughout their lifecycle, from production to petrochemicals annually, including high-value polymers. period in lower-carbon emissions technologies. The OGCI disposal. The shift towards more sustainable alternatives Climate Investments portfolio with assets under
- In 2024, Aramco and the Ronsheng Petrochemical 10 involves adopting alternative production pathways, years Company formed a partnership to advance the SASREF management of approximately $1.3 billion has achieved enhancing energy efficiency, and utilizing renewable a cumulative reduction of 95 MMtCO e since 2019. OGCI celebrated its 10 years anniversary in 2024.
project as part of the Liquid to Chemical Program. Aramco resources to reduce GHG emissions throughout the product 2 intends to establish a 50% partnership with Rongsheng Since 2019, it has achieved a cumulative reduction of lifecycle, as well as identifying and producing alternatives 95 MMtCO e and since 2024, it is co-funding the OGDC in this project, which includes ethane and mixed feed to these carbon-intensive products. Our basic chemicals 2 crackers and their derivatives units. to accelerate emissions reductions from 56 companies production capacity allows us to position ourselves representing approximately 45% of the global oil production strategically as these chemicals provide the foundational - Aramco continues construction of the Amiral petrochemical materials needed for various energy solutions and products, project on partnership with TotalEnergies. Construction 2023 spend 2022 spend as well as lower-carbon innovations and technologies, started in 2023 with commercial operations planned for R&D focus areas ($ million) ($ million) making them essential to the energy transition. 2027. The complex aims to produce 1.65 million tons per annum of ethylene from a mixed-feed cracker. CCUS 40.0 41.5 The Company is creating and deploying technologies to
- Aramco continues the construction of the Huajin Aramco produce chemicals in high demand with lower emissions.
Renewable energy 7.5 6.4 Petrochemical Company (HAPCO) refinery and Through its June 2020 acquisition of a majority interest petrochemicals project. The joint venture between Energy efficiency 71.0 64.8 in SABIC, the Company increased its petrochemicals Aramco (30%), NORINCO Group (51%) and Panjin production, which continues to grow through capacity Waste management and recycling 16.3 32.3 Xincheng Industrial Group (19%) is developing the complex expansions and new investments. Aramco is working in Panjin, in China s Liaoning Province. Construction Water management 50.1 32.2 to commercialize innovative C2C technologies, aiming started in 2023 with commercial operations planned for to remove or streamline several conventional industrial Gas treatment 42.8 40.5 2026. Aramco is expected to supply up to 210,000 barrels processes, lowering production costs and emissions per day of crude oil feedstock to the facility.
associated with the use of oil. Lower-carbon hydrogen 57.8 26.4 Sustainable mobility 208.9 136.6 Crude to chemicals 16.4 30.3 Nonmetallic applications 29.6 24.2 Total R&D for sustainability technologies1,2 540 435 Total Aramco R&D2 861 737 Total R&D for sustainability technologies1/Total Aramco R&D2 63% 59%
* Metric reported for the first time externally.
1. Includes direct R&D program costs plus estimated overheads.
2. The reporting boundary for this is Company in-Kingdom (including Global Research Centers). As part of Aramco s innovation ecosystem, our Global Research Centers play an enabling role in advancing long-term goals related to energy innovation, sustainability, and operational efficiency. A research center s scope and activities are functionally aligned with at least one R&D program, with many centers focusing on multiple objectives and programs.
50 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 51
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Carbon capture and storage Fresh water conservation Extensive laboratory assessments were completed to Our efforts in the advancement of sustainable support the Company s plans for its first sequestration practices are demonstrated through the continuous project in saline aquifers. More than 200 laboratory research, development, and deployment of new tests were conducted to provide the necessary data technologies aimed at enhancing fresh water for modeling and risk mitigation assessment, and to conservation. Examples of such efforts include: ensure that the CO is stored safely. These tests include pond-water based fracturing fluids, CO foamed 2 2 measurements of petrophysical and mechanical rocks fracturing fluids, and fast advanced sulfate removal.
properties as well as fluid-fluid and rock-fluid interactions under aquifer conditions.
Our efforts on CCS are not limited to subsurface studies but also extend to various aspects including the monitoring and surveillance of CCS projects.
CO mineralization Hydrogen production Besides subsurface sequestration, alternative Our hydrogen R&D program aims to advance the sequestration routes represent a key focus within our frontiers of sustainable energy production and R&D portfolio. In addition to previously highlighted exploration. The program covers hydrogen production CO mineralization R&D efforts, we are exploring the from upstream pond waters, catalytic in-situ hydrogen conversion of CO into various oilfield chemicals and production from oilfields, bio-based in-situ hydrogen products such as biocides for water treatment and subsurface generation, and various routes for HS acids for scale inhibition. conversion into H.
Innovative solutions to capture CO at the point of emission Aramco s mobile carbon capture technology aims to capture CO at the point of emission. During the past decade, Aramco s Transport Technologies R&D team has road-tested prototypes for an array of vehicles and trucks, generating more than a dozen granted patents that are part of an active licensing program.
Sustainability in action Innovative hydrocarbon extraction solutions Aramco explores and implements artificial lift Gas innovation to reduce emissions solutions to enhance the efficiency of hydrocarbon extraction.
In 2024, Aramco advanced its gas strategy to support the Company s efforts to reduce emissions with Artificial lift technologies, such as electric submersible innovative technologies in gas processing: pumps (ESPs) and gas lifts, are used to help extract
- Shedgum gas plant: patented a new control system fluids from underground reservoirs to the surface.
These technologies are transforming the fields of for the Amine Absorber, cutting CO emissions by 170 MtCOe through reduced steam and fuel energy extraction and petroleum production.
consumption.
In addition, the Company has been investing in
- Haradh gas plant: patented the use of 14 wireless technologies like rigless ESP technology, which flowmeters for improved accuracy and reduced reduces the need for rig interventions, and dual ESP emissions in the acid gas handling area. technology, which offers a redundant system that extends the ESP lifecycle.
Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: These advanced artificial lift technologies help enhance cost-effectiveness, reliability, overall Lower-carbon Technology efficiency, and adaptability to varying well conditions.
initiatives 52 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 53
 Differentiate I Sustain I Diversify I Enable Recent investments by Aramco Ventures Aramco Ventures Amogy Xpansiv Aramco Ventures serves as Aramco s dynamic venturing arm, managing multiple venture capital Amogy enables zero-emission transportation through Xpansiv facilitates the trading of environmental programs with total assets under management (AUM) of $7 billion.
the use of ammonia as a transportation fuel. Their commodities and is a leader in the energy and patented ammonia cracking technology is integrated environmental commodities market, offering an with either fuel cell or hydrogen engine systems to integrated platform to support the global energy Investing in innovative technologies and solutions Link to strategic enabler: generate electric power from liquid ammonia. transition. It provides access to a wide range of energy Headquartered in Saudi Arabia, Aramco Ventures maintains offices in the US, Europe, transition markets, including the largest environmental Technology and China. Aramco Ventures includes the $1.5 billion Sustainability Fund and the commodities trading platform. In May 2024, Xpansiv
$0.5 billion Industrial Fund, which are dedicated to global investments in startups that secured investment from Aramco Ventures to enhance provide strategic value through deployment within Aramco and facilitate the development its market infrastructure and support its growth strategy.
of new energy and materials businesses. Aramco Ventures also oversees the $3 billion Prosperity7 Fund, focusing on disruptive startups to support Aramco s long-term diversification goals. Xpansiv was also chosen to provide the technology for Saudi Arabia s Voluntary Carbon Market Company Additionally, Aramco Ventures operates a $2 billion Late-Stage Strategic Venturing Fund, specializing in larger-scale
(VCM), which launched in November 2024, facilitating REDEX minority investments that support partnerships and the development of a high-growth, disruptive business portfolio.
carbon credit transactions. Additionally, Xpansiv REDEX is a leading commodity exchange in Asia and Connect offers open access to its trading and settlement Fund Structure accelerates the shift to renewable energy with scalable platforms, integrated with global registries, supporting Four Funds with AUM of $7 billion.
solutions, offering a comprehensive ecosystem for RECs. various marketplaces worldwide.
As Asia s leading RECs trading platform, it lists over Aramco Ventures 480,000 RECs from 1,600 assets. REDEX is developing its footprint in the Middle East, to enable effective trading markets for RECs to develop in those markets.
Early-Stage Strategic Venturing Early-Stage Diversified Venturing Invest in start-ups to accelerate their development Invest in disruptive start-ups that help support and deployment in Aramco Aramco s long-term diversification 1. Industrial Fund 2. Sustainability Fund 3. Prosperity7 Fund OXCCU Carbon Clean
$0.5 billion $1.5 billion $3 billion OXCCU is a carbon transformation company that Carbon Clean is focused on transforming carbon converts CO and hydrogen into SAF and other valuable capture technology with innovative solutions to reduce Late-Stage Venturing hydrocarbons using proprietary catalyst technology. industrial emissions and promote sustainability.
4. Late-Stage Venturing Fund Invest with a focus on potential Aramco OXCCU has developed an innovative multifunctional Partnering with Aramco and Samsung E&A, Carbon
$2 billion long-term strategy targets catalyst system capable of directly converting carbon Clean is deploying its compact CycloneCC technology dioxide and hydrogen into hydrocarbons within the to capture CO from natural gas turbine exhausts.
jet fuel range. This process offers cost advantages If successful, this could reduce the installed cost of over alternatives, both in operational and capital carbon capture systems by up to 50% compared The Sustainability Fund consists of 36 portfolio companies expenditures, which will help reduce the cost of to conventional methods, while maintaining high
(27 direct investments, and 9 indirect investments), with a total synthetic SAF. The Company recently marked the performance and efficiency at lower CO concentrations.
Rondo: a VC investment by committed amount of $500 million, since inception. In 2024, the opening of their demonstration plant at Oxford Airport Sustainability Fund committed $107 million* (including seven in the UK.
Aramco Ventures new portfolio companies*) in various sustainability technologies.
Rondo has created an electro-thermal energy storage In addition, Aramco Ventures aims to support the development solution that utilizes abundant, low-cost materials to and deployment of innovative technologies that can enhance deliver continuous lower-carbon heat for industrial the operations of Aramco while also contributing to the energy processes. This battery can seamlessly integrate with Direct air capture portfolio investments sector s sustainability. Since 2014, Aramco Ventures has piloted existing assets, either replacing outdated fossil-fueled and deployed 68 technologies at Aramco facilities. Aramco Ventures has Ucaneo (Germany) Captura (USA) Parallel Carbon (USA) equipment or complementing operational systems, invested in a diverse and is charged by renewable sources such as wind or Develops an Focuses on DOC by Combines DAC with range of DAC and Direct solar. It is currently the world s highest-temperature, electrochemical DAC system removing CO from water electrolysis to Ocean Capture (DOC) highest-efficiency commercial energy storage solution. inspired by the human seawater, enabling capture CO and produce 1.5 500 technologies, each Aramco and Rondo are exploring opportunities to lung, capturing CO subsequent absorption hydrogen u sing
$ billion $ million offering unique deploy this battery in existing facilities and future efficiently at room from the atmosphere. renewable energy.
Dedicated to sustainability Invested across 36 portfolio innovations: applications, including hydrogen production, carbon temperature.
globally companies, since inception CarbonCapture Inc. (USA) Spiritus (USA) capture, DAC, and desalination.
Offers modular and Low-cost passive scalable DAC systems for absorption systems that 107 68 larger-scale carbon removal are able to regenerate via
$ million* and storage. submersion in hot water.
In various sustainability Technologies piloted and technologies in 2024 deployed at Aramco facilities
54 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 55
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Climate Safe change and operations the energy and people transition development How we work Governance Growing Minimizing societal environmental value impact Safe operations and people development Workforce protection and process safety ........................................ 60 Human rights in the workplace ........................................................ 66 Labor practices .................................................................................. 67 Aramco continues to foster a diverse and inclusive workforce.
Diverse talent enhances collaboration, innovation, and respect, reflecting the global perspectives inherent in Aramco s multinational workforce.
56 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 57
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Safe operations and people development Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Performance of our key metrics Safe operations and people development Our view People are one of the key enablers of Aramco s strategy. We believe that by maintaining the safety of our workforce, assets, and surrounding communities, as well as fostering continuous learning in our workforce while promoting a diverse and inclusive workplace, we are strengthening our foundation for enduring success.
Our ambition We endeavor to provide our employees with a safe working environment, best-in-class training, education, and development opportunities to support their careers and their future. We aim to increase the representation of women and people with disabilities
(PwD) in the Company, while promoting a culture where all employees can succeed.
Our approach We strive to provide robust safety systems and processes to enhance the protection of our employees and contractors leveraging the latest digital technologies, and unifying health and safety approaches across the Group, guided by best practices and affiliates insights.
Our policies are informed by international human rights principles, and aim to cultivate a respectful and productive workplace. We Full metric table on pages 123-125 engage our employees through a variety of communication channels and we have a formal grievance process overseen by our Human Our contribution to the UN SDGs Resources Department.
Aramco implements various safety, health, and well-being Aramco is improving the gender balance of its workforce To advance equity and inclusion (E&I), we focus on attracting diverse programs for our employees, contractors, and suppliers, and beyond via a range of female empowerment initiatives, talent, increasing equity in leadership, building an inclusive workplace, supported by our ongoing digital transformation efforts. including provision of targeted educational and development and establishing E&I as a business priority and enabler.1 opportunities.
Aramco believes in lifelong learning and development. We have established policies and processes to manage our We continue to provide world-class learning experiences ethics, bribery, and corruption risks, and ensure a suitable that drive both personal growth and effective operations working environment for our workforce.
at all levels of the Company through innovative platforms.
This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section 1. More information on our E&I initiatives can be found on page 68 of this Report. of our website.
58 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 59
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Workforce protection and process safety Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Our safety performance Workforce protection Occupational safety and process safety 2023 2022 Fatal accident rate (per 100,000,000 work hours) 0.305 Metric not disclosed Safety is integral and paramount to our operations at Aramco. It is ingrained as one of the Company s five core Safety Management previously values. Safeguarding people, assets, and the environment Number of fatalities 3 5 is central to our mission and is reflected in our approach to building and sustaining a robust safety culture across System Total recordable case rate (per 200,000 work hours) 0.042 0.050 our workforce.
Lost time injuries/illnesses (LTI) rate (per 200,000 work hours) 0.018 0.014 We operate under a total workforce concept , where Aramco s SMS sets clear expectations for how safety is our safety standards and practices are extended to all managed, providing a structured framework that integrates employees, contractors, and suppliers. By fostering a unified occupational and process safety to maintain consistent In 2024, we experienced the loss of two employees and Process safety and asset integrity approach, we aim to create a workplace and environment standards across all operations. Developed through six contractor colleagues during their work with us. Each Aramco aims to prevent process safety incidents, fostering where safety is a shared responsibility and an integral part comprehensive benchmarking with industry peers, the of these tragedies has a profound impact on their families, of our day-to-day operations. a proactive safety culture across the workforce, including SMS is aligned with the requirements of the internationally colleagues, and our entire Company. Any loss of life is never through safety inspections, ongoing training, and recognized ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety Aramco s approach to incident prevention reflects our acceptable and to this end, we are continuously striving communication.
Management System, and has been validated through belief that all risks are manageable when addressed to reduce the occurrence of incidents.
third-party evaluation. By embedding rigorous safety In 2024, Aramco recorded nine Tier 1 process safety events systematically, guided by our Safety Policy and Safety Of these fatalities, three were due to injuries sustained from processes into daily operations, the SMS enables business (PSEs), with seven occurring at wholly-owned in-Kingdom Management System (SMS).
struck-by incidents and two from chemical exposure, while units to meet safety expectations, prevent incidents, and assets and two at operationally-controlled affiliates. Three the remaining were from electrical shock, fall from height, Leadership plays a critical role in driving safety excellence enhance overall process safety, while supporting Aramco s Tier 1 events were major, resulting in serious injuries, one across the organization. Through clear accountability and and equipment failure incidents. Evaluations and lessons operational goals. was moderate, and the remaining were classified as minor.
learned from these incidents have been shared with relevant active engagement, management sets the tone to ensure Despite portfolio changes that may impact our operational The implementation of the SMS is supported by SafeLife, high safety standards and practices are implemented and organizations, and we have implemented remedial actions baseline, our goal remains the elimination of Tier 1 PSEs.
a one-stop digital safety platform that allows organizations and enhanced risk management to prevent reoccurrence.
maintained. Oversight of safety is reinforced through a We emphasize best practice sharing across sites, with to effectively manage their safety programs and monitor robust governance structure, where the Board s Sustainability, a dedicated incident investigation team addressing performance, report incidents and safety observations, Risk and Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Committee improvement opportunities to enhance safety performance process recommendations and corrective actions, and and the Group Health, Safety, Security and Environment Company-wide.
manage field safety inspections. All employees and
(GHSSE) Committee provide strategic guidance on safety contractors have access to SafeLife via their work systems matters and receive regular updates on the Company s and mobile phones.
safety and health performance.
Number of Tier 1 process safety events Loss prevention compliance review Our ongoing digital transformation efforts further support our strategy, enabling the deployment of innovative safety Loss prevention compliance reviews (LPCR) play a role in 2024 9 solutions that enhance safety governance, improve real-time overseeing the Company s safety programs implementation risk management, and strengthen emergency preparedness, and their alignment with the Safety Policy and SMS.
2023 15 while maintaining our focus on operational resilience. These reviews support safety excellence and continuous improvement throughout the Company by identifying areas 2022 11 of focus and promoting best practices.
The LPCR involves conducting thorough assessments with a multi-disciplinary team and generating detailed reports with recommendations and actionable steps for organizations within the Company with the aim of improving the safety culture. These reports play a role in enabling departments to conduct high quality self-assessments, identify areas for improvement, and drive proactive safety initiatives within the organization.
In 2024, 47 reviews were completed across our in-Kingdom operations as well as international affiliates. These assessments focused primarily on hydrocarbon and industrial organizations, and also included major projects and office-based organizations.
This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section LPCRs completed in 2024 of our website.
60 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 61
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Workforce protection and process safety continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Additionally, we utilize the Turnaround Safety Index (TSI) to Safety training Contractor safety focus specifically on contractor safety performance during major turnarounds and inspections. In 2024, we completed 322 TSI inspections.
Aramco aims to ensure the safety and well-being of programs For onshore and offshore drilling operations, we rely on its contractors. Our strategy is built on a robust field presence, systematic performance evaluations, and the the Rig Safety Index (RSI) to monitor safety performance among drilling contractors. In 2024, we conducted 228 RSI Aramco leverages advanced technologies to enhance safety implementation of effective governance practices. We employ specialized tools to track and assess contractor inspections, covering 17 prime drilling contractors, assessing training programs, offering virtual reality (VR), merged contractor safety performance, seeking to ensure compliance reality (MRx), and augmented reality (AR) modules for safety performance, promoting adherence to our corporate safety standards. In addition, Aramco is actively participating with safety procedures across our Drilling and Workover critical topics such as hazard recognition and control, operations.
confined space entry, joint site inspection, fire safety, with the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers
(IOGP) to enhance the future industrial outlook on scaffolding, working at height, and journey management. In 2024, we took a step forward in enhancing well Employment of these technologies allows for more contractor management, with contributions to shape future completion site safety performance with the introduction of safety considerations and management of contractors immersive and engaging learning for thousands of the Well Safety Index (WSI) framework. This comprehensive Mukamalah is setting benchmarks in aviation safety and our employees. throughout all phases of engagement.
framework evaluates safety performance across five critical sustainability through the effective use of Flight Operations well completion activities, such as coiled tubing, slickline, Visible safety leadership, where management actively We use the Construction Safety Index (CSI) as a key metric Quality Assurance (FOQA) data. By proactively identifying to evaluate our construction contractors compliance well testing, wireline, and fracking, and establishes demonstrate their focus on safety through tangible actions trends and analyzing flight performance, FOQA enables a benchmarkable baseline for well service contractor and behavior, remains a key aspect of our safety culture. with safety requirements and to assess the overall safety Mukamalah to mitigate potential hazards, improve performance. In 2024, we conducted 3,792 CSI inspections companies. During an initial validation process, we With this in mind, we continued to invest in developing operational efficiency, and support adherence to safety conducted 45 WSI assessments with three major well leaders at all levels. Targeted workshops and courses are across 89 prime contractors.
protocols and regulations. These insights also feed into services providers, verifying the framework s accuracy and offered to frontline managers and executives to strengthen continuous training programs for pilots.
reliability. Building on this successful validation, we formally their ability to lead with safety as a core value.
To uphold our high safety and operational standards, launched the WSI, marking a milestone in the Company s In 2024, we performed: Contractor Safety Improvement Program.
180 pilots undergo two training sessions per year at aviation training academies accredited by regulatory authorities, Transport safety 3,792 322 promoting continuous skill enhancement and compliance with the latest manufacturer and industry standards.
Construction Safety Turnaround Safety We transport large numbers of people, products, and In addition, Mukamalah s fleet incorporates advanced Index inspections Index inspections equipment by road, air, and sea, across our operations.
aviation technologies such as Ground Proximity Warning This activity poses safety risks and we continuously seek Systems, Traffic Collision Avoidance Systems, enhanced to reduce these risks.
weather radar systems, and data-driven Health Usage 228 45 Safety on the road Monitoring Systems.
Rig Safety Index Well Safety Index Our operations are widely spread, and sometimes are in Safety at sea inspections inspections remote places. In Saudi Arabia alone, Aramco used over We manage and operate over 330 maritime vessels, with 11,000 Company road vehicles covering more than over 7,000 members of our workforce. Aramco s marine 240 million kilometers, and over 420 buses, covering over operations span the Kingdom s coastlines from the Arabian 22 million kilometers to transport our people for business Gulf to the Red Sea, providing safe, reliable, and costin 2024.
effective integrated marine solutions. This supports the Company s offshore operations such as exploration, drilling, We closely monitor the safety of our people on the road and Sustainability in action production, exportation, crew transfer, oil spill response, mandate a number of traffic training and education programs subsea repairs, offshore logistics, and offshore security.
for our employees, such as the Driver Improvement Program Enhancing contractor safety and its refresher, off-road, and specialty driving courses, and In 2024, we introduced the Back to Basics safety employ digital solutions aimed at improving traffic safety. through HSE Intelligence Hub awareness campaign through eight targeted sessions, focusing on Aramco s Lifesaving Rules related to work Safety in air Aramco launched the HSE Intelligence Hub to permits, energy isolation, confined spaces, working at transform how we collect, analyze, and utilize HSE Mukamalah operates a fleet of 54 aircraft across multiple heights, road safety, excavations, use of personal protective sectors, including shuttle, executive, and special mission data. The hub integrates data from over 20 sources, equipment (PPE), and avoiding hazardous work zones.
automating KPIs, allowing for a dynamic and real-time operations. With a focus on safety, efficiency, and reliability, Designed to strengthen marine safety culture, the program the fleet has successfully transported over 1.2 million monitoring of HSE metrics. It facilitates informed aimed to support adherence to these guidelines among decision-making and optimizes contractor oversight.
passengers, accumulating a total of over 58,000 flight hours all marine employees. Over the course of the campaign, in 2024. The hub strengthens our focus on HSE excellence, more than 1,800 onboarding sessions were conducted helps in minimizing incident risk, and promotes with the engagement of more than 37,500 attendees.
a safer working environment.
Link to strategic enablers: People Technology 62 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 63
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Workforce protection and process safety continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Emergency Digital transformation Health protection Sustainability in action Promoting safety in our community Aramco considers health protection an integral pillar of its preparedness in safety Promoting safety in local communities forms an operations, ensuring that its operations and projects comply with the applicable regulations related to health protection, element in our SMS. Examples of our effort include: In 2024, Aramco enhanced its Corporate Emergency In 2024, Aramco continued to use advanced digital and strives to avoid creating undue health risks to workers First Responder Grant and the public, guided by its Global Environment and Management Program, focusing on readiness, resilience, technologies to reinforce operational reliability and workforce The First Responder Grant is an annual program and pre-planning. The program was expanded to include protection, with a focus on hazard detection, incident Health Protection Policy. Aramco continues to engage supporting emergency response organizations in its stakeholders, deliver health protection programs, key functions such as Personnel, Public Affairs, and prevention, risk management, and real-time monitoring.
the communities near our operations, offering grant Industrial Services organizations. promote appropriate industry practices, and leverage We leveraged predictive analytics in our monitoring systems, funding for life-saving equipment and training to technology in improving its health performance.
Quarterly technical exchange forums brought together using AI and smart cameras to identify unsafe conditions police, fire, and emergency medical services Several compliance programs are in place to manage, with emergency management staff to share knowledge and best and issue corrective measures at project sites and facilities. departments. In 2024, Motiva awarded $75,194 to practices. Emergency response plans were tested through We developed in-house machine learning models to forecast the aim to eliminate, the health impacts of our operations 15 emergency response organizations in three Texas and facilities, covering environmental health, occupational site-specific and large-scale exercises based on credible pipeline failures, supporting targeted maintenance and counties in which it operates, marking the fourth grant scenarios, including cybersecurity threats, journey reducing the risk of incidents. These tools assist us in health, industrial hygiene, and radiation protection.
award cycle.
management, and operational disruptions. Analysis of identifying and managing risks in our efforts to enhance In 2024, health performance improved over the previous Since the program was introduced in 2021, it has exercise critiques recorded in the SafeLife digital safety safety performance.
year with an increased number of resolved findings from the provided grant awards across its operating area system identified corporate-level trends and addressed Company s health assessment programs. In addition, health totaling more than $500,000.
recurring issues.
risks posed by unresolved cases have been minimized and Traffic safety in Eastern Province, KSA long-term mitigation measures are being put in place.
Additionally, corporate emergency management documents were updated to incorporate safe evacuation procedures Aramco supports the Eastern Province Traffic Safety Managing the well-being of our contractor workforce is for PwD, ensuring inclusivity in emergency preparedness. Council to achieve one of the Vision 2030 strategic an ongoing effort. Assessments, inspections, and initiatives objectives of enhancing traffic safety by encouraging such as the externally benchmarked Contractor Well-being a safe driving culture, improving road infrastructure, Program ensure that we address their physical and mental and enhancing emergency services. The program health.
Sustainability in action encompasses a comprehensive framework with More information on our well-being initiatives can be found 91 initiatives planned over a 10-year period, including Enhancing monitoring and inspection in the Labor Practices section of this Report. delivery of traffic safety awareness training courses and campaigns, as well as improvement of road through technology and AI infrastructure towards enhanced International Road Assessment Program (iRAP) ratings.
Utilizing drones for safety inspection Health performance We use a range of Unmanned Automated Vehicle (% overdue health findings)
(UAV) technologies for safety inspections. Fixed wing 2024 15 UAVs provide regular monitoring of cross-country pipelines, while drones inspect high elevated cable 2023 19 trays, eliminating the need for scaffolding.
2022 15 Salamatic Eagle safety monitoring through AI The Salamatic Eagle reduces injuries on drilling rigs and construction sites by combining CCTV feeds with machine learning to detect PPE misuse, safety hazards, and unsafe human behavior.
Raqeeb smart solution for safety Raqeeb is an AI-powered tool that helps to identify safety observations and delivers critical insights. Using real-time data analytics to enhance risk detection and regulatory compliance, Raqeeb also expands the safety database to highlight key risks and provide tailored stakeholder support.
Link to strategic enabler: Technology T his figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section of our website.
64 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 65
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Human rights in the workplace Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Human rights in the workplace Labor practices At Aramco, we support wider stakeholder engagement and We embrace and celebrate our diverse and multi-national Number of grievances raised seek to manage human rights impacts across our operations. workforce and promote mutual values of respect, Aramco 2024 employee statistics1 We adhere to local laws and are informed by internationally collaboration, and innovation in the workplace.
recognized human rights standards.
2024 112 We engage with our employees through a variety of We strive to foster a positive workplace culture that channels, from town hall meetings to surveys and 2023 230 75,118 prioritizes dignity, respect, and inclusivity. This ambition recognition events, offering opportunities for their includes a strong stance against abusive practices, modern 2022 293 voices to be heard.
Total number of employees slavery, exploitation, and child labor.
We promote E&I, and have policies, training programs, and Across our supply chain, we work with suppliers to promote adjustments in place to foster an inclusive and accepting Sites with a grievance mechanism in place respect of human rights, incorporating health and safety working environment where everyone feels valued,
(%) requirements into goods and services procurement practices. respected, and empowered to thrive. 8 ,517 9 4 Our governance framework emphasizes transparency, 2024 100 Total number of Nationalities adherence to applicable laws, and social and economic contractor employees development. By embedding these principles into our 2023 100 operations, we continue to make positive contributions, 2022 100 reflecting our values as a global corporate leader.
Breakdown of Company employees Further details on our supply chain efforts can be found in the Growing Societal Value chapter of this Report, under By gender Grievances Human Rights in the Supply Chain section.
7 .9 9 2.1 Aramco strives to maintain a workplace where employees % % Code of Business feel confident in raising concerns without fear of retaliation.
Female Male Alongside the reporting channels provided by the CoBC, the Company offers a formal grievance process overseen Conduct by the HR Department to ensure all concerns are reviewed By age impartially and resolved fairly.
(%) Aramco s Code of Business Conduct (CoBC) reflects our Employees have the right to file grievances at any time 18.7 efforts in maintaining a respectful, safe, and ethical without risk of disciplinary action or adverse career impact.
workplace while upholding human rights. These principles Grievances can be submitted through an online reporting guide how employees and Directors are expected to form, with personnel advisors available at HR service centers behave and align with our dedication to being a responsible around the Kingdom and through online platforms to corporate citizen across all areas of operation. These provide guidance on the process.
59.5 measures empower our colleagues to speak up, act with 21.8 This system underscores our dedication to transparency, integrity, and contribute to a safe and ethical workplace.
accountability, and fostering a respectful workplace where The CoBC can be accessed on our website. every employee s concerns are addressed with fairness and professionalism.
Employee relations To promote business ethics and transparency, Aramco 44,667 16,389 14,062 operates a Workers Committee managed by a voluntary 35 years 36-44 years 45 years team of elected employees, established an Employee and younger and above Grievance Mechanism, and conducts regular employee experience surveys.
1. Company in-Kingdom only.
66 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 67
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Labor practices continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Inclusion of people with disabilities Equity and inclusion Aramco values the contributions of PwD and promotes an inclusive workplace. As a member of The Valuable 500, a global initiative to end disability exclusion, Aramco leverages Aramco continues to foster a diverse and inclusive Number of female employees best practices to support employees with disabilities.
workforce, and by embracing differences and providing Award equitable access to opportunities, we aim to create an Disability inclusion at Aramco focuses on accessibility in Rated Top Employer again environment where everyone feels valued, respected, physical, digital, and learning environments, helping 2024 5,935 Aramco was officially certified as a Top Employer and empowered to thrive. A diverse workforce enhances employees thrive in their work. Efforts include a reduced in Saudi Arabia in 2024 and 2025 by the Top Employers 2023 5,294 collaboration, innovation, and respect, reflecting the global working hours option, increasing the number of accessible Institute, in recognition of its efforts to promote perspectives inherent in Aramco s multi-national workforce.
facilities, initiating personal emergency evacuation plans, 2022 4,503 employee excellence and high standards in HR practices.
offering workplace adjustments like office ergonomics and The People and Organization Committee oversees progress Aramco has also been ranked among the top 100 mobility services, and providing assistive technology tools on E&I initiatives, which emphasizes hiring diverse talent, such as screen readers and speech generation devices. in the 2024 edition of the World s Best Employers achieving equity in leadership at all levels, building an Female employees by Statista, published in Forbes, and achieved the inclusive workplace, and promoting E&I as a business (%) Aramco also offers regular training programs for leaders highest ranking among its industry peers. The priority and enabler. A key objective in our people strategy and employees and disseminates resources, such as our Company also remains the highest-ranked employer 2024 7.9 is to increase the representation of women and PwD in the sign language booklet and Be Mindful Cards for promoting in Saudi Arabia. This achievement highlights Aramco s Company through a strategic HR value chain approach of inclusive communication with PwD, aimed at raising awareness 2023 7.2 efforts to promote a positive workplace environment Attract, Develop, and Retain while fostering a culture where and building a culture of inclusion. These measures reflect for its employees and reaffirms its leadership in the all employees can succeed. 2022 6.4 Aramco s dedication to empowering PwD and integrating energy sector.
their talents into the organizational ecosystem.
In 2024, we expanded E&I-related training programs for In addition to these awards, the Company was also our leaders and HR professionals. For example, the Michigan Aramco is also a member of the International Association of Number of female employees in leadership positions1 recognized by TIME magazine amongst the 100 Most Ross E&I program is aimed at equipping our leaders with Accessibility Professionals (IAAP) to support our accessibility Influential Companies in the World , and was also tools and frameworks to lead diverse and inclusive teams upskilling initiatives. IAAP is a division of the Global Initiative ranked in the Top 10 by LinkedIn for the Best and adopt inclusive hiring practices. Learning opportunities for Inclusive Information Communication Technologies, 2024 308 Workplaces to Grow Your Career in Saudi Arabia for are also afforded to all employees through 28 webinars and advocacy initiative by the UN Global Alliance for ICT the fourth consecutive year.
2023 233 covering various E&I-related topics. and Development. This membership provides access to training materials and webinars through a global network Gender equity 2022 176 of accessibility professionals.
In 2024, Aramco s total female new hires reached 24.0%, comprising both Saudi and expatriate employees. We Female employees in leadership positions continued to develop female employees through advanced
(%) degree programs, scholarships, and leadership initiatives.
Sustainability in action Collaborations with national institutions have enhanced 2024 5.8 female representation in STEM fields, with 61% of Saudi Promoting diversity in the Kingdom female direct hires coming from STEM majors. Female 2023 4.8 leadership also expanded, increasing from 233 to 308 through the Success@Work program 2022 3.8 leaders, supported by targeted programs at global Success@Work is an E&I initiative for National Training universities such as Harvard University, INSEAD, and London Centers (NTCs). NTCs are the product of the strategic School of Economics and Political Science (LSE), in addition partnership between Aramco, the Technical and Female new hires2 to rotational job assignments.
(%) Vocational Training Cooperation, the Human Resources Development Fund, and business partners, Aramco achieved milestones in promoting women in 2024 24.0 non-traditional roles, including safety and security, and focusing on training and preparing young Saudis for different industries, further equipping the Kingdom saw a rise in patents filed by female inventors. Through our 2023 24.1 efforts, we promote the empowerment of women across with a qualified workforce.
the organization and create opportunities for career growth. 2022 28.4 The initiative aims to create a workforce that is ready for an inclusive workplace, through training sessions that promote awareness on how each individual contributes to an inclusive workplace. In 2024, over 70 sessions were delivered involving more than 2,000 participants. This initiative supports the Kingdom s Vision 2030 to provide pathways for individuals to reach their full potential.
Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: Localization and the promotion of People National Champions 1. Leadership positions are defined as chief position holders i.e. group leads, supervisors, managers and above.
2. Consists of direct hires, and excludes contractor employees and graduates from our non-employee programs.
68 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 69
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Labor practices continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Nurturing young talent Investing in our Sustainability in action Sustainability in action Aramco is dedicated to developing a robust talent pipeline to support the Company s strategic goals and Saudi Arabia s Learning and development World Economic Forum Frontline Vision 2030. In 2024, the expansion of our non-employee workforce programs led to 729,091 applications an increase of 49% innovations through technology Talent of the Future Initiative from the previous year. This growth reflects the success of targeted outreach campaigns and technical enhancements Aramco was nominated by the WEF and was and gamification From new recruits to senior leadership, we provide tailored to streamline the application process, making it more subsequently selected to participate in a pilot program development programs to equip employees with the skills In 2024, HR made significant advancements in digital accessible to Saudi youth. titled Frontline Talent of the Future Initiative. The needed to excel in their roles, building the capacity and upskilling by launching the myLearning platform initiative aims to recognize companies who are leaders resilience of our workforce to meet the evolving demands These programs are designed to equip participants with the with AI capabilities. This included personalized course in developing and retaining their frontline talent, of our business. skills needed for academic and professional success. Key recommendations, simulations, and AI-powered codifying learnings from these world-class initiatives include the Apprenticeship Program for Non- searches, resulting in over 5.9 million platform hits In 2024, Aramco strengthened its professional development manufacturers about the talent innovations and Employees which provides academic and job skills training, and 1,155,847 course completions. The gamification offerings, introducing five new programs in its Executive transformations that enabled them to achieve the Vocational College Graduate for Non-Employee program of learning, including VR/AR content, saw high Programs catalog in collaboration with institutions such as world-class performance.
which bridges technical skill gaps for specialized roles, and satisfaction rates and helped enhance engagement Oxford, HEC Paris, and ILR School Cornell. These initiatives the College Preparatory Program which prepares students in corporate training on crucial topics like information The nomination and subsequent selection were align with corporate strategic goals and enhance leadership for admission to top universities. The numbers of hired a direct result of Yanbu Refinery s 2023 recognition security and safety.
development, with 1,355 seats offered in 2024.
graduates and new intake of apprentices varied year-on- in the Global Lighthouse Network, a community We continue to prioritize academic and job-related training year according to the business needs and candidate pools. of 189 industry leaders pioneering the use of cuttingand development through programs like the Executive edge 4IR technologies in manufacturing. Yanbu Through these efforts, Aramco continues to nurture future Speakers Series, Specialized Programs, Advanced Degree Refinery is the fourth Aramco facility to be included, talent and drive educational and economic opportunities for Programs, and the Hosted University Programs (HUP), joining the Company s Abqaiq oil processing and Saudi youth.
bringing world-class educational opportunities to Saudi Arabia. stabilization facility, Uthmaniyah gas plant, and Khurais Oil Complex.
More than 1,000 employees have graduated from HUP since its inception in 2011, through 40 different programs, from Link to strategic enablers: Link to strategic enablers: 20 various universities, in a broad range of disciplines, Number of hired graduates including business, engineering, and digital fields, partnering People Technology People Technology with top international universities such as IE University, Imperial College London, and INSEAD. Evolved from modest 2024 1,124 beginnings, HUP has become one of the flagship learning 2023 1,665 pathways, creating a cost-effective model to pursue higher education degrees while remaining active on the job. 2022 1,459 Internship opportunities Number of interns The total number of hours spent on training and development We offer a range of internship programs designed to in 2024 reached 13.8 million hours, an increase from provide valuable work experience and professional Number of apprentices nine million the previous year. This growth reflects the development opportunities, while providing Aramco with 2024 3,222
(new intake) Company s efforts towards enhancing workforce capabilities the opportunity to establish a pool of qualified and top 2023 3,201 and investing in employee development. The average talents as candidates for future hiring.
2024 1,986 number of training hours per employee has also increased, 2022 3,190 The Graduate Internship Program supports a limited contributed by the introduction of various digital upskilling 2023 2,200 number of graduates from Saudi and international courses Company-wide as well as new training programs 2022 1,728 universities, with KAUST currently participating. The in our corporate academies.
University Internship Program offers college and university students the chance to gain practical experience while fulfilling their graduation requirements. In 2024, Aramco Total hours of training and development hosted a total of 3,222 trainee students from various
(million hours) universities and colleges which is marked as a higher intake for the internship program with 47% female representation.
2024 13.8 The Vocational College Internship Program reached 2023 9 a milestone in 2024, hosting 787 interns the highest in its 2022 Not available history. Female participation in the program rose to 36%, reflecting Aramco s support for Vision 2030 and its focus on increasing E&I. The program also saw a growing Average number of training hours per employee representation of PwD, contributing to a more inclusive
(hours) and dynamic work environment.
2024 140 2023 95 2022 Not available 70 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 71
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Labor practices continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Workforce well-being and engagement Sustainability in action Investing in contractor well-being Link to strategic themes: Link to strategic enablers: Localization and Employee well-being Nine dimensions of Aramco s Well-Being Program The contractor workforce is of utmost importance to the promotion of People Aramco. Across the Kingdom, there are more than 400 Aramco s Work-Life Support Program enhances employee National Champions Aramco contractor camps, housing more than 200,000 well-being with 24/7 access to clinical counsellors, Physical Emotional Social contractors supporting Company operations. Contractors Technology mindfulness, life coaching, and a digital behavioral health well-being is of paramount relevance to their performance platform. We promote financial literacy through courses and and covers physical, mental, and social health.
on-site advisors while offering childcare, fitness facilities, in Arabic, Bengali, Chinese, English, Hindi, Tagalog, and and personalized nutrition coaching. Services are designed The Aramco Contractor Well-Being Program has been Urdu languages including access to a toll-free call center, Spiritual Intellectual Occupational to be inclusive and accessible, supporting employees with designed to enhance contractor well-being within video counselling, training, and online resources. These disabilities and fostering a balanced, supportive workplace.
worksites, camps, and communal living facilities, ensuring services are backed up by compliance requirements.
their health and appropriate living conditions.
The Contractor Well-Being Program has been externally Contractors are given access to channels to raise benchmarked, and Aramco was identified as a leader Environmental Financial Digital Sustainability in action concerns and receive emotional support as necessary. in the field of contractor well-being, based on eight This is delivered through a range of services offered well-being elements: Creating a vibrant employee In 2024, Aramco launched the Well-Being Program, focusing on nine dimensions, including physical, emotional, and community Community/Environmental Physical financial health. Highlights included the World Mental Health For more than 40 years, Aramco has supported Day event, which engaged employees globally, underscoring Contribute to society, Physical activity, nutrition, sleep, thousands of expatriate employees and families the Company s dedication to well-being. community, and environment and healthcare access relocating to Saudi Arabia, offering family-focused housing services to help employees settle through Aramco s Contractor Well-Being Program a smooth transition. In 2024, we continued to enhance Inclusive/Belonging Emotional Aramco supports the well-being of its entire workforce, Elements of employee well-being through transformative initiatives.
including contractors1. The Contractor Well-Being Program Purpose, positive values, Positive emotions, feeling Aramco s includes free well-being training, well-being educational and sense of community secure to be best self at work More than 2,600 accommodation and 153 key facilities material, and multilingual services such as a 24/7 Well-Being Contractor have been modernized and 18 new facilities and Call Center, video counselling, and online resources.
age-specific recreation zones added, expanding green Well-Being spaces and maintaining over 1.6 million m2 of parks Our Supplier Performance Evaluation was amended Intellectual Social Program and green areas.
to include requirements for the implementation of the Gain new skills and provide Social engagement, ways of Contractor Well-Being Program and the registration Aramco has introduced new sports facilities and training opportunities working, and positive relations of contractors in the contractor passport solutions system, wellness programs including gyms, fitness classes, which allows for the tracking of salary status, and the and major events including the 37-category Aramco Financial Occupational validity of residence permits. As at the end of 2024, we have Championships. Dining services have 46 new enrolled over 100,000 contractors in the contractor passport concessions, international restaurants, and more Financial security, ability to plan, Job security, work-life balance, and solutions system. and manage own finances healthier working environment than 300 pop-up food trucks.
Aramco is also piloting AI-driven voice recognition Community engagement has included seasonal technology to identify and support mental health cases activities, Saudi heritage programs, and international early among contractors.
celebrations, with more than 100 self-directed groups Examples of activities and initiatives performed supporting these elements: supporting hobbies and skills from chess to public speaking. These initiatives underscore Aramco s 1. P hysical well-being: Implementing health programs 5. F inancial well-being: Supporting financial security efforts in creating vibrant communities and enhancing covering weight management, health screening, through timely payments of salaries and providing employees quality of life.
and smoking cessation, as well as promoting financial advice through 24/7 call center.
healthy eating and exercise.
6. I ntellectual well-being: Providing access to Link to strategic enabler: 2. E motional well-being: Conducting mental health resources, workshops, online libraries, training, awareness events, providing emotional support and skill development.
People though various channels including onsite engagements, 24/7 tele-counselling, and virtual 7. I nclusive/Belonging: Conducting engagements sessions with psychiatrists. and awareness events, offering support and communications in multiple languages, and 3. S ocial well-being: Fostering connections and providing diverse food choices and quiet rooms.
strengthening relationships through activities, gatherings, competitions, and self-interest clubs. 8. Community/Environmental: Promoting community connection and volunteering opportunities, 4. O ccupational well-being: Organizing well-being and providing access to sound and healthy related engagements and team building, accommodation.
implementing well-being policies, promoting healthier work conditions, and providing access to on-site medical clinic.
1. The scope of Aramco s Contractor Well-Being Program excludes contractor employees, who are covered under Aramco s Work-Life Support Program and Well-Being Program for employees.
72 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 73
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Labor practices continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Employee experience The improvements in both the rating and response rate are attributed to the actions taken by organizations At Aramco, we value employee engagement. To enhance across the Company in response to the 2022 survey results.
the workplace experience for our people, we have This includes the continued support and communication established multiple communication avenues. These include by the executive management, the leadership enablement town hall meetings, engagement surveys, recognition campaign through which the Leadership Toolkits focus on events, the intranet, and periodic performance reviews. Spotlight on Young Leaders Advisory Board four areas: Enable, Care, Recognize, and Develop are made Based on the feedback received through the bi-annual available to all leaders, the establishment of the Employee Empowering the young generation to new heights Employee Experience Survey conducted in 2022, we Experience Champion Network comprising 500 champions identified four areas with improvement opportunities Established in 2011, the YLAB has set out on a journey Engaging with our youth in industrial areas: Focusing on across the Company, as well as Your Voice Matters related to smarter ways of working, employee skills campaign. to empower, engage, and inspire the youth in Aramco youth in industrial areas is one of YLAB strategic priorities development, employee well-being, and recognition. while amplifying their collective voice. given that more than 67% of all young employees work The survey result provided insights into Aramco s global We have made positive changes through enhanced HR in these areas. Efforts to engage with young industrial workforce, representing a step forward in elevating YLAB is empowered to provide input on matters of policies, improved processes, and new programs workers are focused on facilitating dialogue between strategic importance such as E&I, sustainability, employee experience. As the organization interprets and addressing these areas. young employees and their management, bridging the acts on these insights, it aims to cascade results to each well-being, digital transformation, and more. Currently gap in both knowledge and experience, and capturing Prior to the 2024 Employee Experience Survey, we ran running its ninth cohort, YLAB s 16 members hail from business and service line, enabling targeted decisions and their insights on relevant challenges.
a pre-survey communications campaign called Your Voice actions to boost employee experience and satisfaction. all across the Company and are diverse in background, Matters , highlighting 30 Company-wide actions that have experience, age, gender, and nationality, allowing Learning from global leaders: YLAB hosts influential In 2024, we saw an increase in the overall attrition rate been implemented to address pain points identified in the young employees from all over the Company to have industry leaders, providing a platform for Aramco s mainly due to the higher rate of involuntary attrition 2022 survey. This initiative demonstrated to employees that adequate representation. young employees to learn from their first-hand advice, following a workforce optimization exercise carried out their voice matters and encouraged increased participation experiences, and insights. Notable sessions conducted In 2024, YLAB continued to promote initiatives to support during the year, despite a decrease in voluntary separation in the forthcoming survey. in the past included the CEOs of companies such as from resignations and early retirements. Aramco s nearly 45,000 young professionals. The team JP Morgan, Accenture, and Lazard to name a few.
In 2024, our Corporate Employee Experience Survey was engaged with more than 15,600 young employees, held and the survey recorded a rating of 88%, representing conducted four deep dive studies, and provided Encouraging innovation through Youth Initiated Studies: the highest rating since we began conducting these surveys over 20 advisory services, delivering actionable YLAB supports and guides the youth to innovate and in 2018, an increase of three points since 2022. Notably, recommendations to address youth-related priorities. propose solutions to corporate challenges. Since the start there was a 7% increase in response rate from 2022. of this initiative in 2018, more than 200 youth-initiated The Youth Pulse Survey is conducted to capture insights ideas were submitted, some of which have led to patents and understand youth needs. Additionally, YLAB assisted being filed. In 2024, YLAB received 53 submissions, the four external organizations in establishing their highest since the launch of Youth Initiated Studies.
Employees acknowledging performance review meetings Employee experience index rating1 own youth engagement bodies, further extending
(%) (%) its impact beyond the Company.
Link to strategic enabler: 2024 96.5 2024 88 People 2023 92.0 2023 Metric not applicable2 2022 90.6 2022 85 Metric 2023 2022 Attrition rate (%) 2.2 2.4 Employee turnover rate by gender* (%) Male 2.2 2.4 Female 2.7 4.2
1. Previously employee engagement score (%).
2. The Employee Experience Survey is performed every two years. None was conducted in 2023.
74 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 75
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Climate Safe change and operations the energy and people transition development How we work Governance Growing Minimizing societal environmental value impact Minimizing environmental impact Biodiversity and ecosystem services ................................................ 80 Local environmental impact ............................................................. 84 Water management .......................................................................... 86 Product stewardship and waste management ............................... 90 The caracal is a medium-sized wild cat that looks rather like a slimmer version of its relative, the lynx. Caracals are very rare in the Arabian Peninsula, being threatened by habitat loss and hunting.
A female caracal with two growing kittens was filmed at Aramco s Abha BPA in 2024, indicating that the safe haven of the reserve is making a demonstrable contribution to its conservation in the region.
76 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 77
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Minimizing environmental impact Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Performance of our key metrics Minimizing environmental impact Our view We strive to manage the impact of our operations on the natural environment, contributing to the conservation of valuable resources for future generations.
Our ambition We aspire to have a net positive impact on natural habitats and shared resources.
Our approach We aim to conserve natural resources and manage the impact of our business activities by harnessing technology and embracing circular economy principles.
We continue to expand our BPAs portfolio to safeguard wildlife and their essential habitats. We are implementing a range of nature-based solutions (NbS) that serve as carbon sinks and investing in companies developing technologies to enhance these efforts.
We are working towards further reducing air emissions by enhancing our systems and assets. Operating in an arid environment, we continue to implement a water conservation program to improve efficiency and utilize groundwater alternatives whenever possible. We deploy technologies to enhance dashboard monitoring of hydrocarbon discharges to water, equipping frontline operators with tools to take Full metric table on pages 125-126 corrective actions.
We are implementing circular economy principles by managing Our contribution to the UN SDGs industrial waste and converting it into useful products through Given water scarcity in Saudi Arabia, Aramco has a large Aramco has systems in place to manage all discharged water innovative solutions. This includes diverting spent sulfur recovery seawater treatment and injection network of facilities. to the sea, meeting government requirements by investing catalysts to other industrial facilities for reuse, whenever feasible.
Seawater is used as the primary source of water for oil in maintenance and monitoring systems while proactively production and to provide clean water for its workforce managing operations to avoid hydrocarbon leaks and spills and local communities. by maintaining asset integrity throughout the lifecycle.
Embracing circular economy principles and business models Aramco aims to deliver biodiversity net gain in support of across our operations and activities. This is supported by Vision 2030, SDG15 (e.g., 15.1 (conserve ecosystems) and a circular economy guidebook and circularity maturity 15.3 (end desertification and restore degraded land)), and assessment to guide organizations across the Company in their the Saudi Green Initiative.
circularity journey. Aramco has been implementing circular Partnering with organizations, such as Ipieca and WEF, to help economy initiatives across various value chains by adopting promote good industry practice and better environmental circular business models that aim to optimize resource performance. We are also working closely with our suppliers utilization and reduce environmental impact. For more and creating incentives to reward them for improvements information, please refer to Aramco s Circular Economy in their environmental performance.
section on our website.
78 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 79
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Biodiversity and ecosystem services Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Our biodiversity mitigation hierarchy Biodiversity and Governance framework for biodiversity ecosystem services Avoid Minimize Restore Offset We avoid operating We minimize We restore We offset what we in high-quality our impact degraded cannot avoid, Biodiversity Net positive impact (biodiversity and ecosystem services) habitats habitats minimize, or
(%) restore For over nine decades, we have been operating across the 2024 91.0 diverse landscapes of Saudi Arabia, including vast deserts, mountains, coastal regions, and marine ecosystems.
2023 85.6 Through our affiliates and JVs, we have industrial facilities Our policy is to In 2024, we designated In 2024, Aramco Whenever we intend across the globe. We strive to promote biodiversity 2022 53.0 avoid operating in additional BPAs, now supported restoration to offset our impact, conservation across our operations. Additionally, we designated UNESCO totaling 28 areas projects and planted we ensure that endeavor to apply circular economy principles across our World Heritage sites covering approximately 185,000 native trees offsets, such as those business to reduce the impact of our operations. In 2024, we created maps detailing the botanical species range and desertification risk maps for Saudi Arabia. The and we aim to ensure 1,900 km2. Across all within the Kingdom. from reforestation As countries and businesses develop, our planet s biodiversity our operations result designated BPAs, we projects, are assessed Botanical Range Map was developed in collaboration with has declined, undermining critical ecosystem service benefits, KAUST. This map highlights the locations of 266 plant species in no net loss of identified 844 total and validated by and threatening people s livelihoods and well-being.
biodiversity and species of plants and a credible third-party.
of high conservation priority. The map plots and depicts their known distributions from multiple sources, thus ecosystem services in animals (386 plants, In 2022, during the UN Biodiversity Conference (COP 15), national parks and 300 birds, 46 mammals, 196 countries, including Saudi Arabia, signed the Kunming- highlighting priority areas for protection, and will be added to our existing Biodiversity Heat Map. The sensitivity index Key Biodiversity Areas. 32 reptiles, 80 Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF). This invertebrates).
framework sets action-oriented global targets to reduce for desertification represents regions by extent of desertification.
Having a better understanding of this allows us to more threats to biodiversity by 2030.
appropriately focus our restoration efforts and better Aramco s biodiversity policy is guided by the ambition understand which of our high biodiversity regions might to become net positive through the application of our be impacted due to the consequences of desertification.
biodiversity mitigation hierarchy. Therefore, we aim to Aramco s Biodiversity Protection Areas protect biodiversity in the areas where we operate and undertake restoration initiatives to revitalize sensitive ecosystems, benefiting the surrounding communities and the planet at large.
Tanajib Harqus BPA island Some of our operations are near or partially located in Saffaniyah Coast Tanajib Coastal areas with high biodiversity value. While this may impact Area 1 Area WL We map and monitor to understand the biodiversity around us Saffaniyah Coast Manifa Wetland the natural ecosystem, we have implemented conservation Area 3 We employed a multi-faceted approach to assess and monitor biodiversity, encompassing remote sensing, detailed Manifa BPA Jana Island programs to protect and nurture biodiversity, fostering Fadhili Wetland Abu Ali Island BPA mapping, and strategic prioritization. This involved rapid biodiversity surveys to identify and characterize natural A l H a m r a M u d f la t s W e t l a n d thriving environments. Al Aba Oasis (NE) wetlands, including inland, coastal, and island ecosystems, within the Arabian Gulf and Red Sea regions. These Ra h i m a B a y M a n g r o ve E c o - park Al Aba Oasis (SW) Lake Graner activities are integral to our Natural Wetland Strategy, which is designed to protect and restore these critical habitats, Lake Lanhardt Qatif Wetland Baga Bird Oasis thereby promoting biodiversity recovery and strengthening essential ecosystem services.
Net positive impact Abqaiq Wetlands Asfar BPA Khurais BPA Udhailiyah BPA We are striving to achieve positive impacts for biodiversity by 2030 in line with the GBF.
This is realized when the biodiversity gains from our We conduct applied research conservation programs exceed the impact of our operations.
Aramco engages in collaborative applied research projects with leading local universities in the Arabian Gulf, We calculate net positive impact (NPI) by comparing the including King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM), and in the Red Sea, in partnership with KAUST.
surface area of our BPAs against the space occupied by Our main goal is to advance our knowledge of the ecosystems in which we operate. In 2024, we published nine our operational assets. Qassim BPA peer-reviewed biodiversity-related articles covering a range of topics such as coral bleaching, reef cryptobiome and Madinah BPA In 2024, we met our interim NPI target set in 2023, benthic biodiversity, phytoplankton, sharks ecology, sea turtles nesting habitats, and the Arabian leopard.
progressing towards our 2025 goal of 95.0%. We also Riyadh BPA doubled our BPAs from 14 to 28, covering a total area of Shaybah Wildlife approximately 1,900 km2, achieving an overall NPI score of Sanctuary Bahrah BPA 91.0% . New BPAs include Jana Island in the Arabian Gulf and Asfar Lake in Al Hasa National Park, along with We invest in biodiversity education and awareness 12 others that encompass 20 wetlands with multiple Abha BPA Aramco hosts a Sea Turtle Rescue Center near our Ras Tanura terminal that saves, treats, and releases lagoons and lakes.
sea turtles back into the wild, and educates the local community.
80 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 81
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Biodiversity and ecosystem services continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Habitat restoration and protection In 2024, Aramco Asia Japan (AAJ) engaged with the local A comprehensive assessment of numerous wetlands on Outcrop preservation initiative community to enhance their understanding of coral biology Aramco land was conducted in 2023. As a result, in 2024, Aramco is supporting the restoration and protection Aramco has identified 408 geological outcrops across and ways to mitigate coral bleaching. 20 of these wetlands were officially designated as BPAs, of the habitat of native animals in the south-western the Kingdom that hold scientific, educational, historical, covering 130.9 km2. These include Lake Lanhardt, located highlands in Saudi Arabia s Asir region, recognized as one ecological, and touristic value. Aramco supports the The Saudi Aramco-KAUST Marine Environment Observations within the Company s Dhahran camp, which has recorded of the globally-known biodiversity hotspots, rising above protection of 139 of these sites by installing information Center (SAKMEO) is leading marine ecosystem research 230 bird species, including globally threatened species, and 3,000 meters. The 31 km2 Abha BPA safeguarded by and warning signs, and placing a protective fence around efforts in the Saudi Arabian Red Sea region. The focus of this Asfar Lake, recognized internationally as both an Important Aramco, offers a promising habitat for the reintroduction the most endangered outcrops. Additionally, Aramco has initiative is on studying the coastal and offshore areas of the Bird and Biodiversity Area (IBA) and a Key Biodiversity Area of the Nubian ibex, native to the region. The Abha BPA applied to protect another 234 significant outcrops located Red Sea, with a particular emphasis on addressing key
(KBA), and a potential candidate for government-protected is rich in plant diversity, including 138 species (e.g., Acacia outside its operational areas and has requested the Saudi challenges such as marine protection, coral reef monitoring, areas, with 180 species of birds and mammals recorded.
species, Desert rose). This year we produced a documentary Government to include them in the UNESCO Global and conducting baseline environmental studies. Utilizing This designation marks a step towards restoring their film about Abha and the species that can be found there. Geoparks Program.
advanced modeling and forecasting systems, SAKMEO has ecological integrity, mitigating existing and potential threats The area provides a habitat for 25 mammal species, successfully developed predictive models to understand the to biodiversity, and establishing a program for ongoing including key species such as the Arabian wolf, Striped potential impact of oil incidents on the marine environment ecological monitoring of wetlands health.
hyena, Red fox, Blanford s fox, Arabian caracal, Hamadryas and take proactive measures to mitigate any adverse effects.
baboons, King jird, Honey badger, Cape hare, Indian One of the recent accomplishments includes the publication crested porcupine, and Anderson s Rock Agama.
of a comprehensive booklet summarizing a decade of Field surveys have confirmed the presence of 66 bird species, Sustainability in action marine research in the Red Sea, along with several scientific including regional endemic species like Philby s partridge, publications on coral reef monitoring, including studies on Arabian sunbird, and Palestine sunbird. Supporting the Saudi Green Initiative coral bleaching response, reef cryptobiome diversity, and the functional diversity of reef fishes.
The Shaybah Wildlife Sanctuary achieved multiple Aramco supports research in the Kingdom to combat Additionally, Aramco plans to increase the use of treated milestones in 2024, particularly in wildlife re-introduction desertification and promote land restoration. In sewage effluent in its community areas from 25% to 45% Abu Ali Fish Hatchery and management. We are contributing to national rewilding partnership with KAUST s spinoff company Terraxy, and reduce dependence on groundwater from 75% to The Abu Ali Fish Hatchery reflects Aramco s focus on NbS.
efforts of the Arabian oryx, as their population exceeded Aramco has explored optimal methods for planting 30% by 2028.
Located at Abu Ali Island, this facility aims to promote 340 this year. Additionally, 45 Sand gazelles were native trees as part of the Saudi Green Initiative. Field a positive net gain in biodiversity and enhance ecosystem Aramco is also collaborating with the National Center successfully released, bringing the wild population to 169. trials have been conducted at six different Aramco integrity. It acknowledges the vital interconnection between for Vegetation Cover Development & Combating facilities between 2021 and 2024 with the successful The breeding program for the Red-necked ostrich allowed aquaculture and fisheries as essential components of the Desertification (NCVC) in Saudi Arabia. The project aims planting of over 500 native trees in Khurais and other for the sanctuary population to reach 50 birds, while the integrated coastal area system. The facility will operate to plant 500,000 trees and 500 million seeds by 2035, locations.
wild population increased to five. Operational efforts in using a fully Recirculating Aquaculture System (RAS) capable supporting both the Kingdom s and the Company s 2024 included extensive animal care, such as chick hatching of simultaneously producing up to four native species until The first technology deployed was hydrophobic sand GHG emissions mitigation ambitions. To date, we have and veterinary care for ostriches, Houbara bustards, they reach the juvenile stage. These fish juveniles will be a water-repellent mulch that reduces water evaporation successfully planted over 90 million seeds.
and oryxes. Genetic sampling of ostriches and oryx was released into the Arabian Gulf, guided by ecological studies from wet soil and improves irrigation efficiency. Research conducted in collaboration with the King Salman Royal to contribute to optimal outcomes, such as increased found that hydrophobic sand decreases water evaporation Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: Reserve, and five GPS collars were deployed on Sand survivability and enhancement of biodiversity. In alignment from the soil by 50% to 80% compared to bare soil or Localization and gazelles for tracking. The sanctuary hosted 82 organized with national sustainability goals, the facility will be handed common sand. The second solution involved an advanced the promotion of Technology delegation visits, highlighting efforts to raise public over to the Ministry of Environment, Water and Agriculture form of biochar made from date palm biomass waste, National Champions awareness on biodiversity. (MEWA) by Q4 2025.
which enhances fertilizer-use efficiency, improves soil health, and sequesters carbon dioxide. The combination Wetlands initiatives of these two technologies increases soil nutrient content, Nature-based solutions Aramco pursues efforts to conserving natural wetlands, conserves water, and improves vegetation.
including lakes, intertidal mudflats, coastal lagoons, Aramco invests in NbS, which serve as carbon sinks and reedbeds, and coral islands, as well as various other offer additional benefits. NbS, such as mangroves, provide Plant growth comparison at the Khurais tree plantation ecosystem types1. Wetlands are often considered as habitats for diverse wildlife species, nurseries for juvenile biodiversity hotspots (regions with high levels of plant marine life, and a crucial natural defense against natural endemism that have experienced habitat loss), especially disasters, including shoreline erosion and storms.
in arid regions, yet they face significant threats, with 64% 2022 2024 Coral reefs to 71% lost globally since 19002. They exhibit some of the steepest declines in biodiversity, with freshwater species Coral reefs form essential marine ecosystems that support suffering population reductions of as much as 85%3.
a diverse range of organisms in otherwise nutrient-poor Wetlands provide a vast array of ecosystem service benefits, environments. Healthy coral reefs offer enhanced ecosystem including water quality improvement, flood control, service benefits, including habitat provision, coastal coastline protection, fisheries support, and eco-tourism4.
protection, source of food and income, and medicinal resources. The designation of BPA with a notable presence of coral along the shores of Jana Island aids in the conservation of coral reef ecosystems. Additionally, the Company s support of the Okinawa Coral Reef Conservation Consortium in Japan has been ongoing since 2011.
1. The Convention on Wetlands, 2025.
2. Marine and Freshwater Research, 2014.
3. WWF, 2024.
4. International Journal of Biodiversity Science, Ecosystem Services & Management, 2015.
82 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 83
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Biodiversity and ecosystem services continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Local environmental impact Local environmental impact Sustainability in action Motiva s autonomous drone pilot program Aramco s wholly-owned subsidiary in the USA, Motiva, At the conclusion of the pilot in June 2025, the project has initiated a six-month pilot program of an Unmanned team will present their findings to PAMC Site Leadership Aerial Vehicle (UAV), or drone, to assist with inspections Team for a final decision on implementation. Embracing at height at the Port Arthur Manufacturing Complex technologies like this, which are aimed at enhancing our
(PAMC), Texas. The Percepto drone is an advanced inspection capabilities, contributes to a safer and more Since 2012, our operations have been guided by Aramco s Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions from our operations autonomous drone and the only drone-in-a-box sustainable future. Motiva s autonomous drone pilot EMS, which provides a systematic and structured approach primarily result from the combustion of hydrocarbon fuels solution equipped with optical gas imaging (OGI). This program complies with FAA regulations, and PAMC is in to ensure compliance with local environmental regulations, used for generating electric power and heating in our technology represents a step forward in digitalization constant coordination and communication with nearby and promotes the adoption of international best practices. facilities. We plan to reduce these emissions by optimizing and innovation at Motiva. The drone is expected to Jack Brooks Regional Airport.
In 2024, 95% of Upstream and Downstream asset-based our energy consumption and utilizing alternative fuels and demonstrate its capabilities across various use cases, such organizations under Aramco control achieved ISO 14001 renewable electric power.
as monitoring tanks and pipelines for emission detection, Link to strategic enabler: certification. To oversee environmental management Our corporate environmental standards, along with national detecting potential fence line security intrusions, and performance, we conducted 22 EMS assessments on these environmental regulatory standards, establish the limits on emergency responses.
Technology assets this year.
NOx emissions from our facilities. To ensure compliance with Percepto drones utilize a dual-camera system featuring In 2024, we conducted 134 environmental and health the Kingdom s regulations, we have initiated upgrade projects normal imaging capture and OGI capabilities. These corporate assessments across various Company organizations, to install low and ultra-low NOx burners in our facilities.
cameras are certified by the EPA to detect VOCs and can including five affiliates. These assessments covered a broad We also utilized partial nitrogen purging in the flare heads to capture high-resolution images and videos of gas leaks range of environmental protection disciplines including air reduce environmental impact at three gas compression plants for emission detection and compliance purposes.
quality, water management, wastewater, solid industrial/ (GCP), that to date operate with a continuous flaring of 60% N hazardous waste, environmental health, radiation and 30% gas mix instead of the usual 100% gas. The Percepto drone at PAMC is designed for autonomous, protection, and industrial hygiene.
scheduled flights. Beyond these routine, scheduled flights We are working towards deploying volatile organic the system allows for on-demand flights as requested compounds (VOCs) control systems by installing vapor Air emissions by Motiva, providing flexibility to respond to urgent recovery systems in our bulk loading facilities to reduce situations, such as emergency incidents.
VOCs associated emissions, across our Upstream and Aramco monitors its air emissions and, where necessary, Downstream assets.
implements measures to reduce their impact on our workforce, local communities, and the environment. In addition, Aramco researchers have developed the double Gasoline Particulate Filter (dGPF) technology to reduce Aramco produces five grades of crude oil: Arabian Heavy, In 2024, the number and volume of hydrocarbon spills fell emissions from the end use of fuels. This technology is Spills to the environment Arabian Medium, Arabian Light, Arabian Extra Light, and currently being demonstrated on a vehicle in collaboration significantly (a 41.7% fall in number of hydrocarbon spills, Arabian Super Light, each with varying sulfur contents. and a 99.6% decline in volume of hydrocarbon spills with a European automaker. Following successful laboratory Aramco operates across a vast expanse with many sites in Addressing sulfur content of our crude has been a main focus, results, road tests on various city roads in Paris have shown compared to 2023).
remote areas. This presents challenges in detecting spills both in crude oil pretreatment and during combustion.
the potential to lower particulate number (PN) emissions, onshore and offshore, as well as in responding promptly While we aspire for zero oil spills, we regrettably had seven a regulated pollutant, to below ambient levels at the tailpipe.
Our initiative to upgrade the SRUs with tail gas treatment units to spill incidents. oil spills, which led to a volume of 34A barrels being spilled.
continued in 2024 as we examine opportunities to generate Of these spills, 42.8% occurred offshore. All spills were To progress towards the target of zero spills, we aim to revenue from sulfur. We are leveraging tail gas treatment units promptly contained by the response team, and the affected mitigate geographic challenges by implementing rigorous to support our compliance with applicable SOx regulations, sites were rehabilitated to eliminate further environmental Sustainability in action inspection programs to assess asset integrity, establishing and more companies in the industry are adopting the impacts. Through our recovery efforts, we were able fail-proof measures, providing comprehensive employee technology. Our facilities are conducting a gas analysis of sulfur to recover 49%A of hydrocarbons. All accidental spills Our efforts to manage air emissions training, and adopting advanced technologies for detecting recovery, exploring corrosion challenges in SRU pits, and one applicable for recovery were fully recovered. However, potential failures and responding to spills. We enhance our of our gas plants has deployed machine learning to optimize In 2024, we improved the fuel efficiency of fired the reported recovered hydrocarbon figure also includes oil spill prevention and mitigation activities by sharing best temperature and flow of molten sulfur in the pipelines. heater operations by placing interlocking hexagonal hydrocarbon discharges to water from regular operations, practices among various teams and regions within the blocks after the burners to enhance the mixing of which are unrecoverable.
Aramco sulfur oxides (SOx) emissions were 145.3 metric organization and collaborating with universities on oil spill combustion products. This innovative technology was kilotons a slight decrease compared to 2023 due to monitoring and mitigation technologies.
installed in the SRUs thermal oxidizers at Shedgum improved sulfur recovery.
gas plant. It resulted in a reduction of ~13.2% in fuel 2023 2022 Aramco conducts regular oil spill drill procedures for its gas consumption, avoiding the use of 80.8 MMscf/year. hydrocarbon handling facilities and, in the event of any Number of 12 15 Shedgum implemented a valve sealing methodology spills, we have response plans that enable rapid mitigation. hydrocarbon spills SOx emissions to prevent flaring of acid gas that could have resulted The Oil Spill Committee oversees the approval of
(metric kilotons) in ~18,020 tons of SOx emissions. Additionally, the Volume of 8,566 142,885 ,1 appropriate policies, strategies, plans, and actions regarding electrification of a steam methane recovery unit, oil spill prevention, containment, and clean-up for Aramco hydrocarbon spills 2024 145.3 transitioning to electric-powered equipment, increased (barrels) and its subsidiaries.
2023 146 energy efficiency and eliminated air pollutants.
Recovered 88 9 ,1 hydrocarbon (%) 2022 167 Link to strategic enabler: This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section Technology This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with of our website.
the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the 1. In 2022, the largest spill was due to an incident concerning a major loss of containment of crude that caught fire. Due to the combustion of the crude, the majority of it was Sustainability section of our website. not recoverable, leading to a low hydrocarbon recovery rate for 2022.
84 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 85
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Water management Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data In 2024, the volume of hydrocarbon discharge to water Wastewater and Water management was 11.6 barrels, which is 18.9% lower than in 2023.
Driven by the Corporate Digitalization Vision, the Company discharges to water continues to improve its monitoring capability of the volume of hydrocarbon discharge to water (HCW) through a Aramco generates large volumes of wastewater and 2 dedicated HCW dashboard. Aramco has revamped the acknowledges the importance of responsibly managing 2 monitoring capabilities of the HCW dashboard through and treating it before releasing it back into the environment. 2 the use of hydrocarbon in water online analyzers that To manage the challenges of the Company s ongoing provide enhanced data collection. In addition, regular expansion programs and comply with applicable With many of its operations in a hyper-arid environment, We supported water circularity by expansion of treatment preventive maintenance has been performed on heat environmental regulations, a comprehensive wastewater Aramco has long recognized the value of water. and storage of water-based mud and brine for further exchangers utilizing cooling mediums, such as sea water.
effluent treatment and monitoring program has been reutilization of fracking fluids. During 2024, zero liquid This has improved the integrity of the heat exchangers and established. The program aims to protect both the Aramco s water conservation efforts involve supplementing discharge (ZLD) technology has been deployed. The ZLD prevented hydrocarbon leaks due to corrosion.
water supply with alternative sources, implementing environment and public health, by adhering to Aramco s distillate was reused for fracturing operations, further wastewater compliance and engineering standards, water-efficient practices, increasing wastewater reuse, supporting water circularity. Notably, the ZLD technology and decreasing water losses at operating facilities optimizing the design of wastewater facilities to enhance has continued to receive global recognition, earning the Hydrocarbon discharge to water treatment and management of generated wastewater, and communities.
 Special Meritorious Award for Engineering Innovation
(barrels) and maintaining a vigilant monitoring program for For instance, this year, water initiatives at Haradh gas plant (MEAs) in 2024 under the Water Management category.
wastewater discharge.
2024 11.6 led to a 18,000 m3 reduction in freshwater consumption.
In 2024, freshwater consumption was 83A million m3, The relevant national and international frameworks and We also piloted a water leak detection and repair (WLDAR) 2023 14.3 a reduction of 7.7% compared to the previous year s standards inform how we deal with wastewater and digital solution at Khursaniyah gas plant. The solution performance, due to Aramco s water conservation efforts.
discharges to water. This includes the Executive Regulations monitors and analyzes the entire water cycle in the plant 2022 16.4 In order to enhance water conservation performance of the for the Protection of Aqueous Media from Pollution, to determine the severity and location of leaks as they occur.
Company facilities, Aramco completed 16 water conservation amongst other Saudi Arabia Government Environmental Additionally, we deployed AquaSight an inhouse water assessments in its upstream, downstream, and community Standards; and Ipieca s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on digital dashboard that offers advanced analytical capabilities facilities. Moreover, recognizing the value of water, Voluntary Sustainability Reporting Discharges to Water.
to manage and plan water consumption in unconventional especially given the harsh arid conditions we operate in, gas drilling operations.
the majority of our freshwater consumption is sourced from In addition, a collaborative work of our upstream operations and researchers led to the production of hydrogen from regions that are not classified as water-stressed.
wastewater in an evaporation pond through photocatalytic reactions. This was piloted in the laboratory and a demonstration plant has been constructed at Shedgum gas plant. This patented technology marks the first instance of utilizing wastewater to produce hydrogen.
Freshwater consumption
(million m3) 0.02 m3/boe 2024 83.0 Freshwater intensity 2023 89.9 2022 93.6 2023 2022 Freshwater consumption (million m3) 89.9 93.6 Freshwater consumption water-stressed regions (million m3) Breakdown not disclosed previously Freshwater withdrawal (million m3) 135.7 136.6 Freshwater intensity (m3/boe) 0.02 Metric not previously disclosed This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section of our website. of our website.
86 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 87
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Water management continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Our efforts Spotlight on water management at Aramco Water conservation efforts at Upstream operations From the Arabian Gulf to the depths of a reservoir We recognize the vital importance of water conservation in our in-Kingdom operations and have established Qurayyah seawater plant (QSWP) on the Arabian Gulf is one of the a comprehensive framework built around two focus areas as part of the Company s water neutrality aspiration.
largest operations of its kind in the world with an expansive network First, we aim to reduce our reliance on groundwater sources by identifying alternative water supplies, optimizing well of facilities across the Company s fields. It treats seawater and transports it to many fields for pressure maintenance, thereby design, and implementing managed aquifer recharge techniques. Secondly, we strive to optimize our water use by streamlining processes, upgrading equipment, and training personnel to promote a culture of water stewardship. preserving valuable groundwater and helping protect marine life. Its annual maximum capacity for groundwater savings is equivalent to the entire industrial sector s annual groundwater demand in Saudi Arabia.
Focus areas Reduce groundwater use Optimization and efficiency 1978 2.2 650+ QSWP establishment Million m3 per day Injection wells are Pillars supplied by QSWP To help achieve our goals, we have identified three core pillars that underpin our water conservation framework: Reduce dependency Lower water unit cost Reduce water-related Closed loop drilling on groundwater CO emissions Implement innovative solutions like 2 Sustained groundwater supply is the primary focus area for the Drilling Utilize treated/desalinated membrane bioreactors, solar- Incorporate renewable energy
& Workover (D&WO) Organization. Among various water conservation seawater, greywater reuse, and powered desalination, and smart and efficient practices.
initiatives implemented, closed loop drilling has led to reductions in wastewater recycling. pumping systems.
water consumption. The adoption of practices and services such as improved solids control, high-efficiency tank cleaning, completions filtration system, and water storage tanks have reduced the use of groundwater. In 2024, D&WO drilled 449 wells using closed loop practices which reduced groundwater consumption by 4.4 million m3.
Enablers We have identified five enabler categories that support our water conservation objectives: 4.4 449 Million m3 of water is reduced in 2024 Drilling wells using closed loop in 2024 System design modifications Advanced technologies Nature-based solutions Optimize existing infrastructure and Leverage advanced technologies to Embracing nature-based approaches, design new systems that reduce monitor, manage, and treat water such as wetland restoration and Treated sewage effluent water loss and enhance recovery. more effectively, reducing water green roofs, to harness the power of In concerted efforts to preserve the Kingdom s precious groundwater This includes installing low-flow consumption. Tools include real-time ecosystem services and enhance resources, Unconventional Resources (UR) has developed a two-phase fixtures, promptly repairing leakages, monitoring platforms, machine biodiversity while conserving water.
and using flow-restrictive devices learning algorithms, and precision These methods also provide benefits strategy to reduce environmental impact while ensuring operational that can reduce non-essential water irrigation control systems. like improved air quality, noise efficiency. This approach prioritizes the long-term sustainability consumption. reduction, and habitat creation.
of our water resources. The short-term solution utilizes treated sewage effluent (TSE), which underwent rigorous trial testing. TSE is now sourced from the Al-Omran processing plant and efficiently transferred to frac sites. A long-term solution using reverse osmosis (RO) technology is considered to be implemented in the future.
Digitalization solutions Research and development Harness digital innovations like Internet of Things (IoT) Collaborate with experts and invest in R&D initiatives to keep sensors, predictive analytics, and smart monitoring systems up with emerging trends, identify potential solutions, and to detect leaks, predict demand, and make informed continuously improve our water stewardship practices.
decisions about water allocation. Real-time insights enable Partnerships with academia, startups, and industry peers 4.1 swift action, preventing unnecessary waste, and enhancing facilitate knowledge sharing, accelerating innovation Million m3 of groundwater is being conserved in 2024 operational responsiveness. and adoption of advanced technologies.
88 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 89
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Product stewardship and waste management Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Industrial waste management Product stewardship Sustainability in action In 2024, Aramco made progress in reducing and diverting ISCC PLUS certifications landfilled waste by following the corporate waste Yanbu NGL has achieved the ISCC PLUS assessment management strategy. This progress is maintained by and waste management with no major non-conformities. The ISCC is a globally conducting waste reduction assessments to identify recognized certification system that verifies the opportunities to reduce industrial waste generation and sustainability attributes of feedstocks, enhancing the enhance the implementation of more sustainable practices credibility of our facility operations. Conducted over across our operations.
Aramco aims to implement circular economy principles In 2024 we have implemented over 300 circular economy three days by Cotecna, the ISCC PLUS certificate was across its operations to lower GHG emissions, reduce initiatives across various value chains, with the aim to Our continued expansion in operations resulted in an awarded in 2024. This certification underscores pollution and waste, enhance process efficiency, and improve circularity, operational efficiency, safety, economic increase of the total disposed waste by approximately 6.5%.
Aramco s efforts towards more sustainable practices provide innovative solutions for a more sustainable future. performance, and social impact. The initiatives include: As a result of applying circular economy principles and and reinforces our contribution to the circular economy.
initiatives, the percentage of total industrial waste recycled
- Pipelines circularity program: Aramco Pipelines increased from 35.7%A to 47.8%A.
Circularity in industrial Aramco s wholly-owned subsidiary, ARLANXEO, Organization launched a circular economy program has embarked on a journey to have all of its assets to enhance operational efficiency, safety, economic As part of the corporate waste strategy, we introduced waste management certified for producing and selling products based performance, and social impact. The program includes improvements in the focus areas of drilling and industrial on ISCC PLUS. Meanwhile ARLANXEO has certified circular practices such as material and water recycling, waste. These efforts led to the development of a Circular To support transformative change, we introduced the products from a variety of plants across the globe, selling unused pipes, 3D printing, and reusing drained oil. Economy and Waste Tracking Solution, the creation of Circular Economy (CE) Corporate Policy in 2024. This policy producing ethylene propylene diene monomer (EPDM) As a result, 21,000 tons of pipelines were effectively utilized. site-specific waste stream management plans, and emphasizes the Company s dedication to the circular rubber, butyl rubber, chloroprene rubber, butadiene enhancements to the qualification process for local waste
- Asset lifecycle improvement: Aramco s Upstream facilities management of resources and defines Aramco s circular rubber, and EVM rubber. Initial sales for these management service providers. The strategy encompasses have adopted 3D printing to produce in-house parts that economy principles. Moreover, we established circular products have been established. In addition, all Company organizations and establishes action plans for act as seals, preventing foreign materials from entering economy mandates to guide and encourage the adoption ARLANXEO has set a goal to prepare and maintain each focus area, including industrial, municipal, drilling, valve internals and improving valve reliability. The of circularity in our operations, in accordance with product environmental footprint (PEF) calculations for and naturally occurring radioactive material (NORM).
Drilling and Workover circular economy efforts included international standards, such as ISO 59004, ISO 59010, all of its products, which has been performed already 16 initiatives, saving an estimated $816 million. The largest and ISO 59014. for EPDM and nitrile rubber products. The PEF of a Furthermore, the Drilling and Workover Circularity Program initiative involved recycling and transferring 0.5 million m3 product, based on life cycle analyses, takes into has continued implementing its closed-loop initiative at of drilling mud between rigs.
account all aspects for making the product from cradle 449 well sites, resulting in a 27.0% reduction in wastewater,
- Excess material reutilization: Aramco s Corporate to gate and considers the sources of raw materials and equivalent to 0.6 million m3, for wells that adopted this Material and Maintenance Services Department has established the energy. As a result, ARLANXEO can offer EPDM initiative. We have also continued utilizing automatic crude asset lifecycles Excess Material Management System, which employs products (Keltan ) with widely varying environmental oil tank cleaning technologies to recover hydrocarbons from various circular business models to optimize resource use footprints. Driven by sustainable innovation, oily sludge tank bottoms at our downstream operating More sustainable Renewable and reduce waste. This system has led to the reutilization ARLANXEO developed Keltan ECO-B, the world s first facilities. Additionally, we piloted a hydraulic cavitation environmental resources practices of 500,000 tons of materials. commercial EPDM produced in Brazil from bio-based and shock technology at Shaybah Producing to recover feedstock. The product offering is further completed hydrocarbons from oily waste. Tricanter technology, which with Keltan ECO-BC, produced in The Netherlands, separates waste into three phases (oil, water, and inert Aramco based on ISCC PLUS-certified feedstock. solids), was piloted at Khurais Producing, achieved 40% oil recovery and 50% water recovery, and is planned to be circular Sustainability in action implemented for industrial waste management across other Link to strategic enabler: Circular economy Waste into production sites. In collaboration with the cement industry, supply resources Turning waste into roads we circulated spent Claus (alumina) catalysts from our chains Portfolio optimization principles upstream operating facilities, recycling 1,500 metric tons of Aramco and SABIC have created an advanced the catalyst into feedstock for cement production.
functionalized polyolefin using ground tire rubber waste. This new material acts as a bitumen compatibilizer for a new generation of quiet and durable roads, incorporating up to 10-12% ground tire Design Innovative 2023 2022 rubber. This recycling technology not only upgrades for circular technologies and economy digitalization tire and plastic waste, but also helps reduce Industrial waste recycled (%) 35.7 39.9 microplastic contamination in road dust. The roads Industrial waste disposed1,2 (metric tons) 481,561 318,656 built with this material demonstrate long-term stability, resistance to rutting across a wide range Industrial waste disposed Upstream (metric tons) 253,044 Breakdown of temperatures, and an extended lifespan, making not disclosed them suitable for harsh conditions. The technology previously has been validated by the Ministry of Transport laboratories, with plans for heavy truck road Industrial waste disposed Downstream (metric tons) 174,790 Breakdown demonstrations in 2025. not disclosed previously Link to strategic enabler: This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section Technology of our website.
1. The name of this metric was changed from industrial waste generated to industrial waste disposed in 2023. The definition of the metric remained the same.
2. Industrial waste disposed number includes operationally controlled affiliates and other waste streams not generated by Upstream and Downstream operations.
90 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 91
 Human rights in the supply chain .................................................. 103 Community and society ................................................................... 104 Aramco s iExplore Biodiversity STEM program, running for over a decade, partners with the Houston Museum of Natural Science to offer immersive workshops and field trips for students. Focused on biodiversity, it engages students through exhibits, hands-on learning, and classroom resources, inspiring STEM interest and environmental awareness.
92 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 93
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Growing societal value Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Performance of our key metrics Growing societal value Our view We seek to grow societal value wherever we operate. As good corporate citizens, we strive to cultivate a favorable environment to conduct business and contribute to the development of our communities.
Our ambition We aim to cultivate a highly-skilled and engaged workforce that has the capacity to innovate and excel.
To create resilient, local supply chains, we strive to facilitate a globally competitive business environment within Saudi Arabia and in other places wherever we operate. We strive to help our suppliers to be informed by human rights principles.
Through supporting the Kingdom s Vision 2030 and cultivating a thriving and diversified economy, we nurture and support industrial sectors in Saudi Arabia. Globally, we seek to support economic growth where we operate, while contributing to the empowerment of local communities.
Our approach We provide our workforce with skills and knowledge through our extensive training and development programs to overcome challenges and advance innovation.
Full metric table on pages 127-128 By cultivating a competitive national energy sector in the Kingdom, our iktva program helps boost supply chain resilience and helps Our contribution to the UN SDGs foster a thriving local economy. Our goal is to localize 70% of our Aramco has various social investment programs, which look Sustainable Industry: Aramco prioritizes a top-tier local procurement spending.
to improve the health and well-being of our host communities supply chain for more sustainable energy solutions. Diverse around the world. Infrastructure: Aramco s Kingdom-wide infrastructure To support our respect to human rights, our vendors in the Kingdom contributions span natural gas, roads, educational facilities, have signed our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC), which details and cultural centers.
expectations and compliance. Our National Champions programs are helping incubate and grow successful businesses, particularly Aramco promotes lifelong learning and development by Partnering with governments, suppliers, non-profit building schools and establishing market-driven training organizations, and education institutions. During 2024, in emerging fields, to diversify the Kingdom s economy.
centers for a skilled Saudi workforce. The Company also $583 million1 was invested in various social initiatives, To help foster economic growth and prosperity, we contribute to the supports education efforts from science hackathons to supporting more than 100 non-profit organizations around public finances of the countries where we operate. We support a broad biodiversity awareness programs in the countries where the world. More information on Aramco s social investments we operate. can be found on page 104.
range of social and environmental initiatives and promote volunteerism among our employees and communities.
Aramco is expanding its investments beyond traditional oil and gas sectors to stimulate economic growth and create employment opportunities. Aramco is venturing into lithium production, essential for EV batteries, through a partnership with Ma aden. This initiative aims for commercial production by 2027, aligning with global energy transition trends and fostering job creation in new industries.
1. In 2024, the boundary for this metric has been expanded to operational control, as it now includes our overseas subsidiaries, like ARLANXEO and Motiva. Under the prior year reporting boundary, the social investment would be $581 million.
2. In 2024, Aramco s wholly-owned operated assets, SASREF, Motiva, ARLANXEO, and Aramco Trading Company (ATC), were included in the report which contributed to the total number of volunteers and volunteering hours.
94 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 95
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Economic contribution Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data National content Economic contribution National content Operating in over 50 countries and engaging across the Aramco possesses a longstanding tradition of fostering entire value chain, Aramco strives to create value and foster education and professional development for both Saudi Saudization: Building Sustainability in action positive economic impacts in every location we serve. In nationals and our international workforce. By investing in Saudi Arabia, our cumulative iktva GDP contribution has schools, providing comprehensive training opportunities, Supporting R&D activities reached $240.0 billion, reflecting our effort in contributing and supporting thousands in their undergraduate and local workforce and to local economic growth. in Saudi Arabia postgraduate studies, we are developing a future-ready workforce.
Aramco signed a Memorandum of Understanding In 2024, Aramco s global social spending increased by over supply chain 20%, compared to 2023, to $583 million1, reinforcing our (MoU) in 2024 with KAUST to provide up to Our efforts help equip Saudi men and women with the skills
$100 million over 10 years to support research that ambition to support local communities and funding a broad necessary to drive innovation and excellence within our range of social and environmental initiatives worldwide. This focuses on environmental and commercial projects. Company and contribute to the broader development of Aramco continues to develop local talent and strengthen The MoU aims to support collaborative projects growth aligns with the expansion of our global operations the Kingdom.
national capacities in alignment with the Kingdom s and underscores our focus on driving meaningful social related to the energy transition, sustainability, Saudization program. In 2024, Saudi nationals accounted materials transition, upstream technologies, and impact across the markets we serve.
for 90.2% of our workforce, reflecting our dedication to digital solutions, with ambitions on developing Aramco contributes to the local economy in the countries empowering local citizens. Additionally, we continue commercially-viable outcomes.
progressing the Saudization of service contracts, accounting where we operate, transferring $204 billion to the Saudi and Research is expected to focus on areas such as foreign governments in taxes, royalties, and other payments for 55.6% of total contracts in 2024, with the rate for liquids-to-chemicals conversion, future refineries construction contracts at 26.6%.
in 2024.
research, and LCAF. The MoU s priorities include hydrogen, CCS, renewables, and energy storage solutions, while additional projects are expected to Saudization of Aramco s workforce focus on advanced carbon materials and geothermal
(%) 583 1.6 energy.
$ million $ billion 2024 90.2 Social investments R&D spend Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler:
(2023: $475 million)1 (2023: $1.4 billion)2 2023 90.3 Localization and the promotion of Technology 2022 90.9 National Champions 437 240.0
$ billion $ billion Saudization of construction contracts Revenue Cumulative iktva GDP (%)
(2023: $441 billion) contribution 2024 26.6
(2023: $202.9 billion) 2023 29.7 2022 28.0 204 127
$ billion $ billion Payments to the Saudi Dividends Saudization of service contracts and foreign governments (2023: $102 billion)4 (%)
(2023: $206 billion)3 2024 55.6 2023 56.2 106 2022 57.2
$ billion Net income
(2023: $121 billion) 1. Social investment for Aramco is defined as money spent on social and environmental initiatives which benefit societies. In 2024, the boundary for this metric has been expanded to operational control, as it now includes our overseas subsidiaries, like ARLANXEO and Motiva. Under the prior year reporting boundary, the social investment would be $581 million.
2. This figure covers entities under Aramco Group.
3. Figures include income taxes, royalties, and dividends to the Saudi Government.
4. Dividends paid include dividends to shareholders and non-controlling interests in subsidiaries.
96 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 97
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing National content continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data iktva National Champions Sustainability in action Empowering local youth through Aramco s in-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) program Aramco s National Champions program aims to establish a Across Saudi Arabia and beyond, we engage in diverse continues to be a key focus of our efforts to localize supply knowledge transfer and engagement hub of innovation that fosters business growth, job creation, initiatives with a view to empower development. The chains and drive economic growth in Saudi Arabia. Its aim and economic development in Saudi Arabia. The program following highlights recent achievements of our National In 2024, Aramco s Jazan Refinery Engineering is to increase local content in Aramco s procurement spend acts as an incubator to transform promising business ideas Champions, showcasing their impact in creating Department partnered with the College of to 70.0% by the end of 2025. into investment opportunities, nurturing them into opportunities, advancing innovation, and supporting Engineering at Jazan University to deliver 20 technical successful enterprises. By empowering these National economic growth in the regions where we operate.
In 2024, the program achieved an iktva rate of 67.0%, workshops. These sessions, led by subject matter Champions, we are supporting the creation of high-value reinforcing our progress toward this aim. Through iktva, experts, aim to bridge between theoretical studies jobs and contributing to sustainable economic growth Aramco contributed $37.1 billion to Saudi Arabia s GDP, and industry applications for Chemical and Electrical in alignment with the Kingdom s vision for the future.
showcasing its role in supporting the Kingdom s economic Engineering students.
development.
As part of our corporate social responsibility initiatives, As part of our ambition to strengthening local industries, the Jazan Refinery hosted a Field Engagement Aramco entered into 145 corporate purchase agreements Program with Jazan University. The program provided
( 65.7 in 2024, valued at more than $17.52 billion billion). students majoring in Science, Chemical, Electrical, and Since the iktva program inception, 350 new local Mechanical Engineering an opportunity to explore manufacturers were established, introducing 47 items refinery operations, engage with specialized divisions, Spotlight manufactured for the first time in-Kingdom, including and gain practical insights into the industry.
drilling chemicals, multi-phase flow meters, demulsifiers, These initiatives reflect our efforts towards fostering Supporting economic diversification in Saudi Arabia high-performance elastomers, and marine loading arms.
education, skill development, and meaningful Aramco s National Champions program is unique in The program is focused around four domains To date, the iktva program has collectively contributed over community impact, aligning with our focus on its scale of contribution to a local economy. Since the manufacturing, industrial, sustainability, and digital 
$240.0 billion to Saudi Arabia s GDP. This achievement social responsibility and citizenship.
inception of our National Champions program, we have to drive development from an initial idea through underscores the program s role in fostering local economic managed to finalize investments that are expected to to a global business.
growth, driving investments, and building a dynamic, Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: create over 78,800 jobs and potentially contribute over Saudi-led industrial ecosystem.
Localization and
$17.9 billion to Saudi Arabia s GDP.
Link to strategic theme: the promotion of People Through iktva, Aramco is catalyzing transformative National Champions opportunities for Saudi industries to contribute to the global Localization and the promotion of National Champions energy transition, advance the Kingdom s Vision 2030, and unlock their potential to reduce the carbon emissions of the energy industry.
Our program focuses on four domains: Adding value iktva procurement spend in-Kingdom1 throughout the
(%) venture lifecycle 240.0 Innovation and Product A B Wa ed Ventures
$ billion Development Center 2024 67.0 Cumulative iktva GDP contribution Ideas and Seed to Four pre-seed late-stage 2023 65.0 domains: startups startups 2022 63.0 Sustainability Cumulative iktva GDP contribution
($ billion) Industrial Digital 2024 240.0 Industrial D C SMEs Sustainability 2023 202.9 Manufacturing Investment Program and Growth Program National Growth 2022 166.0 champions SMEs World-class +78 +$17.9 k billion A world-class cluster of i nnovation that drives business Potential jobs Potential impact to and job creation, and national economic growth created Saudi Arabia s GDP 1. Applies to the Saudi Arabian Oil Company (the Company).
98 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 99
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing National content continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Wa ed Ventures - Strategic partnerships: Facilitated over 200 introductions between portfolio companies and key stakeholders such Now marking over a decade of fostering innovation, Wa ed as NEOM and Saudi Agricultural & Livestock Investment Ventures has continued to support Saudi Arabia s startup Company (SALIC), ensuring alignment with the Kingdom s ecosystem with a $500 million venture capital fund focused strategic objectives.
on advancing local tech-based startups and localizing global innovations in order to support the development of Saudi - Ministry of Communications and Information Technology Arabia s startup ecosystem. (MCIT) Collaboration: Through partnership with the National Technology Development Program (NTDP), In 2024, the fund made strides in sustainability, AI, and eight portfolio companies received grants totaling over portfolio management to align with the Kingdom s Vision
 3
$0.8 million (over million). These companies include 2030 priorities: Sadeem, Terra Drone, aiXplain, WakeCap, WhiteHelmet,
- Sustainability initiatives: Progressed with the Lisan, IR4LAB, and Cura.
Sustainability Venture Builder (Roots Ventures), launched Wa ed Ventures continues to serve as a cornerstone to diversify the portfolio and strengthen local ecosystems.
of Saudi Arabia s innovation landscape, supporting Six venture-built entities focused on carbon credits and technology-driven economic growth and sustainability emissions optimization have been incorporated, with three initiatives.
fully operational and two securing external investment.
- Strategic investments:
 T enderd: Added $1.3 million to enhance AI-driven fleet Sustainability in action optimization and emissions reduction in construction and logistics sectors.
SPARK
 E xcess Materials Exchange (EME): Allocated an additional $4 million to the circular economy platform The King Salman Energy Park (SPARK) is being for reducing environmental impacts. developed as an industrial ecosystem and aims to Namaat Taleed
 Z ension: Invested $5 million to reduce e-waste and capture full economic value from the energy value Namaat, meaning growth in Arabic, partners with global Taleed continues to support scalable and sustainable job chain in Saudi Arabia and throughout the region.
encourage circular economy practices within the and local stakeholders to help drive large-scale investment growth for Saudi SMEs, focusing on partnerships, business consumer electronics industry in the region.
opportunities and foster the growth of transformative development, and investment attraction. SPARK aims to contribute to Saudi Arabia s Vision 2030
 aiXplain: Invested $5 million in the California-based by supporting the Kingdom s efforts in building a industries. In 2024, Namaat developed and obtained FID In 2024, its Carbon Net Zero Support program helped platform, which offers AI solutions aimed at simplifying for six transactions, adding $7.9 billion to in-Kingdom strong economy of which one of the pillars is revenue over 800 SMEs progress toward carbon neutrality through the process of adopting AI for businesses with limited diversification.
Localization Capital Enablement figures, with an expected 12 training sessions. The program provides SMEs with a technical resources.
future increase in Saudi Arabia s GDP of $3.2 billion and The energy hub can become a 21st century platform roadmap to carbon neutrality, including baseline setting, expected creation of more than 21,800 jobs. Several other Rewaa: Added $6.4 million in Saudi s leading for the energy sector, where tenants and investors target definition, action planning, carbon emissions strategic initiatives include: omnichannel inventory management system, providing energy-related industrial, commercial, and reduction strategies, and progress tracking. Participating accounting, and POS platform for the retail industry.
logistical goods and services will grow and prosper in
- Signing a shareholders agreement in 2023, to form SMEs gained access to practical tools, such as an emissions
 Rebellions: Invested $15 million in South Korea s leading a vibrant international industrial community built on a JV among Aramco, Baosteel, and PIF to establish the calculator and cost-effective GHG emissions mitigation AI semiconductor startup, which plans to establish a excellence and innovation. It can offer tenants Kingdom s first integrated steel plate manufacturing levers, with one SME developing a Carbon Net-Zero subsidiary in Saudi Arabia to expand chip manufacturing convenient access to the economies of the surrounding complex. Once completed, the facility is expected to have emissions monitoring tool to further support businesses in the Gulf. region via easily available transport links. It is the capacity to produce 1.5 million tons of steel annually, in the Kingdom.
e x p e c t e d t o c o n t r i b u t e m o r e t h a n $ 6 b il li o n t o th e b y u s i n g n a t u r a l g a s a n d h y d r o g e n , w h i c h e m i t
- A I - f o c u s e d i n i t i a t i v e s : A ll o c a t e d $ 1 0 0 m il l i o n f o r A I T a l e e d i n i t i a t e d t h e l o c a l i z a ti o n o f V a li d a t i o n a n d K i n g d o m s G D P a n n u a l l y a n d c r e a t e u p t o 10 0 , 0 0 0 l o w e r - c a r b o n e m i s s i o n s c o m p a r e d t o c o n v e n t i o n a l fu e l s .
i n v e s t m e n t s t o p o s i t i o n S a u d i A r a b i a a s a g l o b a l A I h u b .
V e r i f i c a t io n B o d i e s ( V V B s ) , e s s e n t i a l t h i r d - p a r t y a u d ito rs d i r e c t a n d i n d i r e c t j o b s a t m a t u r i t y .
In 2 0 2 4 , f u r t h e r p r o g r e s s w a s m a d e to w a rd s t h e p r o je c t T h i s i n it ia t i v e i n c l u d e s f o r m i n g a n a d v i s o r y p a n e l w it h fo r c a r b o n o f f s e t p r o je c t s . W i t h i n t e r e s t s e c u r e d f ro m by forming the JV company, carrying out site preparation experts from institutions like Meta, Amazon, MIT, and two global VVB players Earthood and TUV Nord Taleed activities, securing land allocations, obtaining an eligibility Link to strategic theme: Oxford University, to support deal sourcing and global aims to localize the first VVB by 2025. The localization of certificate for the economic incentives zone, and talent localization.
Earthood is through the establishment of a JV with a local advancing project financing discussions with lenders. Localization and the promotion of National Champions partner, ASR Financial Consulting, with inauguration - Portfolio development: Institutionalized a post-investment
- Progressing sustainability initiatives, such as exploring venture growth program to provide advisory services, targeted by mid-2025. TUV Nord will partner with the Constructed Wetlands technology for wastewater National Inspection and Technical Testing Company, FAHSS, talent acquisition, governance support, and market access management and advancing an Integrated Waste to portfolio companies.
with its inauguration targeted by the end of 2025. This Management facility aligned with circular carbon localization initiative is aligned with the efforts of the
- Global VC collaboration: Established a network with economy goals.
Kingdom s regulators and enablers such as the Clean leading global VC firms, including Segovia, Lightspeed,
- Localizing IoT gadgets and wearables to improve industrial Development Mechanism Designated National Authority Khosla Ventures, Temasek, and A16z, enhancing access safety and operational efficiency. (CDM-DNA) to establish local standards and ensure to advanced tech investments.
market integrity.
Taleed remains a supporter of sustainability and innovation for SMEs, empowering businesses to navigate the transition to a lower-carbon economy.
100 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 101
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing National content continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Human rights in the supply chain LAB7 Sustainability in action Human rights in the supply chain The Innovation and Product Development Center (LAB7) continues to support the growth of Saudi Arabia s SafaSun: advancing solar panel innovation ecosystem by fostering technology-based startups and supporting the Kingdom s venture capital maintenance landscape. As a quality-feed venture builder, LAB7 s focus is to solve key challenges facing the world today, as the SafaSun, developed by LAB7, enhances solar panel center works with entrepreneurs to create disruptive and cleaning with its autonomous, waterless, and selflasting change in domains such as sustainability, cleaning technology. SafaSun s electromagnetic based Aramco requires its suppliers to share our values and digitalization, and industrial innovation. solution is tailored for dust-prone regions, and it helps respect human rights and ethical practices throughout address a major challenge in solar energy adoption by In 2024, LAB7, in collaboration with the Technology their operations. Our SCoC, which outlines expectations eliminating manual labor, reducing operational costs, Oversight and Coordination (TOC) administrative area, led for ethical sourcing, labor conditions, and human rights and enhancing energy efficiency.
the TecShift Hackathon 2024, the Company s first public compliance, is communicated early in the bidding process.
hackathon. The Hackathon attracted 376 participants across With high cleaning efficiency, and minimal energy All active suppliers in Saudi Arabia have signed the SCoC, 131 teams from industry, academia, and entrepreneurship consumption, SafaSun aims to achieve optimal panel committing to provide safe and sanitary living conditions, sectors, all competing to deliver innovative solutions for performance in regions like the KSA, where adequate safety equipment, and adherence to local labor the Circular Carbon Economy (CCE) and Hydrogen Economy. conventional cleaning methods of a solar plant are laws. Suppliers are required to promptly notify Aramco The platform served as an opportunity to raise awareness time consuming, SafaSun s technology cleans the of any potential or actual violations of the SCoC and to of sustainability s vital role in the global energy transition. panels in seconds, boosting operational timelines propose corrective actions. Aramco monitors compliance and efficiency.
Furthermore, LAB7 achieved the Leadership in Energy through routine assessments of its suppliers, JVs, and and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold Certification for its By overcoming the barriers of dust accumulation and business relationships to ensure alignment with its values building design and construction. This globally recognized maintenance inefficiencies, SafaSun helps accelerate and standards.
award, accredited by the US Green Building Council, solar energy adoption in the Middle East. This potential To strengthen awareness, Aramco delivers SCoC training underscores LAB7 s dedication to environmental stewardship solution supports the Kingdom s sustainability goals, and ethical conduct sessions to suppliers. In 2024, three and sustainable development. helping make renewable energy more accessible awareness sessions were conducted with an attendance and reliable.
of over 1,000 suppliers, two of them during Riyadh and Jeddah Supplier Forums in collaboration with the Chamber Link to strategic themes: Link to strategic enabler: of Commerce.
Lower-carbon Technology Procurement teams inspect suppliers, particularly in initiatives high-risk areas, for non-compliance, such as unsafe Localization and accommodation or underpayment of wages, ensuring the promotion of conformance to our SCoC and/or agreed contractual National Champions arrangements.
Active suppliers signed up to Aramco s Supplier Sustainability in action Code of Conduct (%) Supplier Sustainability Assessment 2024 100 2023 100 and Rating System launched Aramco has launched a Supplier Sustainability 2022 100 Assessment and Rating System offering supply chain transparency and measurable sustainability improvements. The system evaluates suppliers on sustainability-related criteria, using audits, certifications, and real-time dashboards to score and benchmark performance.
Suppliers are categorized by risk level, enabling improvements through action plans, training, and incentives. By measuring against our sustainability criteria, identifying measurable risks and improvements, we increase our supply chain visibility and accountability.
102 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 103
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Community and society Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Community and society Sustainability in action Sustainability in action Ithra: a hub for cultural enrichment Community development through The King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture Ithra micro-industries is Aramco s flagship citizenship initiative and is Initiatives like the Saudi Coffee Initiative, Honey currently the leading cultural and creative destination Production and Beekeeping, and most recently, the in Saudi Arabia. Since it opened in 2018, Ithra has Bajali Almond Cultivation, empower local communities, welcomed around five million visitors and knowledgeOur citizenship efforts today prioritize people s development enhance traditional crafts, and promote sustainable seekers. In 2024, Ithra offered more than 9,000 Social investment and environmental stewardship. We believe that the most livelihoods. Today, Aramco supports seven active programs to the community, covering art, literature, important source of energy is people and their ability micro-industries where it continues to build culture, and creativity. Ithra engaged more than to drive meaningful change for their communities and infrastructure, capacity, and exits when the industry 120,000 children through school and special visits, Since it was founded, Aramco has played a vital role in the environment.
is sustainable for continuous growth.
the Kingdom s development. Initially from the 1930s to offering programs, exhibitions, and workshops that Aramco also supports the Kingdom s Vision by investing in promote culture, knowledge, and creativity.
the 1970s, efforts focused on building infrastructure and In 2024, Aramco inaugurated the first Saudi Coffee driving industrial growth to meet business needs. Over biodiversity initiatives and empowering local communities Development Center as a gift to the local community Ithra facilitated important discussions on the global through initiatives that help develop human capital and time, Aramco has taken a more proactive role in voluntary of Jazan to support the coffee processing from stage on the topic of digital well-being and AI citizenship initiatives, aligning with the Kingdom s vision improve their well-being.
seedling to the cup. The center has an annual including during the USA Roadshow alongside the of fostering a knowledge-based society. production capacity of 14,000 tons and reduces Aramco is expanding its social investments globally, 79th UN General Assembly (UNGA) and at the Global processing time from 21 days to six hours. Our coffee From developing infrastructure and cultural landmarks like reflecting the expansion of its commercial operations. Digital Well-Being Forum. These discussions featured initiative aims to equip coffee farmers with the needed representatives from leading organizations such as the Ithra to supporting micro-industries and advancing health In 2024, Aramco allocated $583 million1 to social tools to expand their production of coffee beans, and education, these initiatives have positively influenced World Health Organization (WHO), Yale University, investments both within Saudi Arabia and internationally. enabling them to earn a sustainable income and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Google many lives in the Kingdom.
These contributions focus our efforts on uplifting support their communities.
DeepMind, and Microsoft.
communities and fostering sustainable development.
Aramco continues to expand its citizenship efforts Additional details on key projects can be found on page 106. Working with Ithra, Aramco facilitates a well-established and supports the development of more sustainable, volunteer program for the public, empowering thriving micro-industries. In turn, this development individuals to contribute to the center s non-profit will help support local communities to shape their mission. Through this, Aramco has significantly future and preserve local traditional crafts for future expanded its employee volunteer program, providing generations. By connecting people and ideas, we Sustainability in action Sustainability in action more opportunities for meaningful engagement.
expand possibilities to spur diversification, drive economic growth, and add meaningful jobs to the Blood donation campaign Empowering future generations labor market in our communities and beyond.
In 2023, Aramco launched its annual Blood Donation through innovation and education Campaign, unifying previously discrete efforts into Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic theme: In 2024, Aramco partnered with the World Robot a cohesive program. This initiative streamlined Olympiad (WRO) to empower future generations collaboration with local blood banks, enhanced Localization and the promotion of National Champions Localization and the promotion of National Champions through innovation and education. This partnership reporting and impact. The Company hosted expanded the WRO Future Innovators competition, 87 donation events in its inaugural year, with nearly providing a global platform for young inventors to 4,300 donors contributing lifesaving blood. Building develop solutions to real-world challenges, and on this success, 2024 saw 110 campaigns conducted introduced WRO LEARN, a digital platform offering across various locations, with over 7,700 employees STEM educational content.
collectively donating blood to local blood banks and hospitals. Furthermore, a significant milestone was Over 15,000 students from over 85 countries competed achieved with the launch of a blood donor tracking in three age groups for the Future Innovators category, system, made possible through the efforts of donors, with the Aramco Innovation Award given to the who collectively contributed over 11,000 volunteer winners from the senior age group for the first time as hours. Blood donations play a crucial role in sustaining part of the WRO Grand Final Competition. The award, hospital and clinic supplies, especially during presented by Aramco in partnership with Aston Martin emergencies and for patients with chronic conditions.
Aramco Formula One Team, recognizes excellence These campaigns demonstrate how collective in robotics design, technology, innovation, problememployee efforts make a tangible difference in solving, critical thinking, and creativity in applying saving lives.
robotics to real-world solutions by WRO competitors.
Link to strategic enabler: Link to strategic enablers: People People Technology 1. In 2024, the boundary for this metric has been expanded to operational control, as it now includes our overseas subsidiaries, like ARLANXEO and Motiva. Under the prior year reporting boundary, the social investment would be $581 million.
104 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 105
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Community and society continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Global citizenship Asia During 2024, Aramco contributed $583 million1 to social investment in the Kingdom and globally across various initiatives.
The case studies below present some highlights of our projects during the year outside of Saudi Arabia. For projects in Saudi Arabia, please refer to pages 104-105.
India China Our social investment has two pillars Partnership with Indian STEM Foundation Shoot for the Future Courts refurbishment Sustainability in action The project Combination of Renewable Energy Solar System Partnering with the Chinese Basketball Association, Aramco
& Robo Siksha Kendra STEM Tinkering Lab established renovated public basketball courts in Beijing using advanced solar-powered STEM education infrastructure in two schools in materials, with flooring partly made from recycled plastic. Aramco Planet People A snapshot of our social investment Mumbai and Delhi-NCR. As part of the project, solar panels with collaborated with SABIC, and Enlio, the exclusive supplier of 3x3 Investment Social investments 10 KW output capacity and a net-metering system, that credits the basketball floors for the Tokyo and Paris Olympics. Enlio developed activities prioritize focus on three key areas projects around the world solar system owners for the electricity they add to the grid, have a custom material using SABIC s advanced recycled plastic as the biodiversity, including of support, knowledge, been installed in both schools. At each site, the solar panels main material component. The project highlights the role of reforestation, and coral creativity, and social support 10 classrooms with electricity. The STEM education advanced materials in a circular carbon economy, while supporting reef regeneration. economic development.
infrastructure ensures hands-on education in using computation Aramco s aim to empower communities and youth through sports.
tools including 3D printing, DIY Robotics Kit, and micro-controller, which benefits 4,000 students who will be prepared to participate in STEM and Tinkering Competitions.
Europe Americas In Europe, Aramco has In the Americas, Aramco has supported 11 non-profit supported 17 non-profit organizations across the organizations, including Netherlands, Italy, Poland, national, regional, and/or state Spain, and the UK. charities, in environmental, STEM, and social projects.
United Kingdom United States Japan Aramco iExplore Biodiversity Project ENTHUSE Aramco STEAM Challenge Education Program Providing support in delivering a high-quality professional
 Aramco STEAM Challenge in Japan is currently providing development (CPD) program for teachers of STEM subjects Heading into its 12th year, solely free hardware teaching materials to 5,000 middle and high school and supporting schools in disadvantaged communities across funded by the Company, the students nationwide. This two-year initiative, aimed at promoting London. Our current program supports schools in 19 areas program focuses on teachers from science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics (STEAM) in London aiming to reach 83 schools impacting 180 teachers predominantly low-income and education across Japan, will continue until next year. These and benefiting 18,000 students by Q2 2025. underserved school districts being materials are designed to help students develop problem-solving certified/recertified to teach the skills through practical learning. Additionally, the program offers Poland biodiversity curriculum, followed ongoing support to teachers, including individual consultations, Talent Open by immersive student field trips.
lesson planning assistance, and review sessions, with the goal During the 2024-2025 school year, In partnership with The High-Tech Foundation (FZT) of building a better future through education.
60 teachers participated in the Accelerator Program for Young Talents below the age of 25, on-site workshops and 1,600 it is the scientific version of the tennis grand slam tournaments.
students from these school districts A program helping young talent to turn groundbreaking are scheduled to participate in the research and social projects into market-oriented ventures led immersive field trips.
by them as founders. The program included startup hackathons and 13 workshops with 3,040 young student competitors National Fish and Wildlife having applied.
Foundation Malaysia Aramco Americas supported nine Mangrove Forest Education and Awareness projects designed to restore and Aramco Malaysia supported the Mangrove Tree Planting with protect approximately 60 acres of Schools Program, which saw the participation of 12 primary and coral reefs throughout the USA by secondary schools. A total of 241 participants successfully planted reducing land-based sources of 400 Rhizopora Mucronata. Additionally, Aramco supported the pollution, expanding out-planting Mangrove Forest Education and Awareness Carnival, which saw of 1,250 nursery-grown corals, and the participation of 12 primary and secondary schools, totaling enhancing coral reef management to 2,619 students and community members. The carnival consisted practices.
of a range of activities designed to educate and inspire school students through interactive exhibitions and activities.
106 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 107
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Community and society continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Building a culture of giving Our Corporate Donation Program aims to enhance the social and economic conditions of the communities in which it operates. In 2024, 27% of donation contributions were allocated to education, benefiting about 25,327 individuals, helping to pave the way for brighter futures. In healthcare, Spotlight on National Training Centers 33% of donations were directed toward essential medical Our National Training Centers bring Aramco s support, specifically earmarked for necessary medical Empowering Saudi talent through e q u i p m e n t a n d s u p p o r t i n g P w D s t h ro u g h v a r i o u s p r o g ra m s,
>100 vocational training legacy to local communities specialized academies re a c h i ng 1 3 ,4 7 7 p e o p l e i n n e ed o f ca re . A d d i t i o n a l ly , 4 0 % of donation funds were directed to social initiatives focused Aramco, in collaboration with the Technical and To support the growth of the Kingdom s economy, as well as to provide Training disciplines on renovating homes for those affected by natural disasters. a robust pipeline of qualified local labor, Aramco began the NTCs Vocational Training Cooperation (TVTC), the Human This effort reached 5,500 individuals, restoring homes and Resources Development Fund (HRDF), and business initiative in 2008. The NTCs are the product of a strategic partnership hope in their communities. between Aramco, select government entities, and the private sector partners, has established 16 NTCs across 10 cities in the Kingdom. These centers, as part of a strategic to train young Saudis in critical and emerging industries.
Empowering people through education and training
>71,640 initiative launched in 2008, address workforce Aramco-built schools To date, over 57,900 students have graduated from the NTCs in more readiness by offering diploma, upskilling, and Since 1954, when Aramco opened its first government than 80 different disciplines, with over 10% being women. Given this Graduated to date certification programs tailored to meet market record, the centers remain on track to meet their aim of 100,000 school, it has partnered with the Government of Saudi demand. Over 33,000 Saudis have graduated from Arabia to deliver the infrastructure and resources needed graduates by 2030.
core diploma programs, with an additional 40,000 to educate over two million students equivalent to 6% participants in short, upskilling, and certification of the Kingdom s total population as of 2024. Currently, Link to strategic theme: Link to strategic enabler: programs in 100+ disciplines.
we support 160 schools, including 147 public schools, seven >10 Localization and the promotion Aramco-based schools, four private schools, and two special The NTCs provide a wide range of training products People % of National Champions needs schools, serving approximately 83,000 students and covering more than 100 different trades and skills Female representation 8,000 staff. In 2024, Aramco invested $94 million in school including short programs, aimed at bridging the skills maintenance and upgrades, along with an additional gaps in critical industries such as energy, technology,
$90 million for reconstruction. Beyond infrastructure, construction, tourism, marine, aviation, and finance.
Aramco enhances education through tailored programs, To date, more than 71,000 Saudis have benefited from leveraging its expertise. This year, Aramco supported these programs, reflecting a high level of demand student initiatives with 26 programs and sessions in for skilled labor across the Kingdom s industrial and 72 schools, benefiting over 11,000 students. These programs service sector. This initiative plays a role in supporting covered topics such as health, career readiness, environmental Vision 2030 by fostering career progression, stewardship, and renewable energy, empowering students promoting employment-led training, and transforming with the knowledge to make informed decisions about their business environments.
futures, health, and the environment.
In 2024, the NTCs achieved a record-high utilization Education programs rate of 93%. This is driven by the NTCs aim to foster Khafji strong collaboration with key Aramco stakeholders, The Company strives to advance educational opportunities alongside the strategic diversification of program and nurture the potential of students through three Nairyah offerings and expansion into new sectors.
transformative programs. The Summer Enrichment Program and Tomooh Program are designed to empower young Jubail learners with the skills, knowledge, and experience Ju aymah necessary to achieve academic and career success. Together, Dammam the programs empowered 11,500 students across the Kingdom and globally.
Abqaiq Adding to this is the Advantage Academy, designed to Al-Hasa positively impact the lives of underprivileged high school Riyadh students by providing strategic programs and services to 346 students. These programs and services enhance students skills, knowledge, and overall academic experience through Jeddah tailored activities in English, Math, IT, and life skills with the objective of preparing them for future opportunities.
2 branches Number of people in Aramco sponsored community education programs 2024 14,572 2023 15,099 2022 12,160 108 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 109
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Community and society continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Total number of volunteers Volunteering 2024 21,1921 Aramco fosters a strong culture of volunteering, offering diverse opportunities for employees and community 2023 7,037 members to engage in meaningful initiatives. In 2024, the 2022 4,941 number of volunteers increased, driven by enhanced efforts from the Citizenship Division and Ithra. This aligns with Aramco s target of achieving one million volunteering hours by 2027. Number of employee volunteers Key 2024 milestones include the introduction of blood donor tracking, with each donor contributing one volunteer hour, 2024 13,4191 in-line with the donation process. Additionally, Aramco 2023 3,405 expanded its reporting to include volunteering contributions from wholly-owned subsidiaries such as SASREF, Motiva, 2022 Metric not disclosed previously ARLANXEO, and Aramco Trading Company (ATC).
2024 also saw the launch of the global volunteer program Number of Aramco facilitated community volunteers in celebration of the International Volunteer Day , uniting employees worldwide under a shared mission. Aramco hosted its first Volunteering Hackathon, where participants 2024 7,7731 developed innovative initiatives, with three winning ideas 2023 3,632 now under implementation.
2022 Metric not disclosed previously Total number of volunteering hours 2024 223,7851 2023 171,633 2022 168,590 Number of employee volunteering hours Sports development Qadsiah s promotion to the Saudi Pro League drew over 2024 37,6501 100,000 attendees. Furthermore, the Sports Camps have Aramco supports and invests in Qadsiah Sport Community 2023 18,179 attracted 350 children, and Qadsiah Academy try-outs Club, a hub which offers a wide range of sports and engaged over 500 young male and female footballers 2022 Metric not disclosed previously community activities to residents of the Eastern Province.
offering them the chance to showcase their skills and the With over 200,000 individuals participating in Qadsiah potential to join the Qadsiah talent pathway.
community activities over the last year, the club continued Number of Aramco facilitated community volunteering hours promoting sports, well-being, healthy living, and youth Qadsiah continues to provide community engaging activities development in the region.
through events, festivals, and fan-zones. The Qadsiah Football Festival, a community-focused event that 2024 186,1361 The Qadsiah Sport Community Club provides a platform showcased the history of Qadsiah and offered interactive for people of all ages to engage in 16 different sports, 2023 153,454 games and experiences, attracted over 50,000 attendees.
as well as community, charity, and volunteering events.
Furthermore, the fan zones at each match engages an 2022 Metric not disclosed previously Aramco s investment in the club has also enabled the average of 7,000 attendees, creating an engaging establishment of the Al Qadsiah Academy in Khobar.
atmosphere that brings people together.
This season, over 500 young athletes, aged 5-16, have participated in Qadsiah football academies, providing them with opportunities to develop their skills and pursue their passion for football.
1. In 2024, the reporting boundary for the volunteering metrics was expanded to include Aramco Trading Company, ARLANXEO, Motiva, and SASREF.
110 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 111
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Data The following table presents Aramco s sustainability metrics for the years 2024, 2023, and 2022. Reporting boundaries for each metric and for each year are shown for transparency, and where possible, comparability.
There are three common terms used in reference to the metrics reporting boundaries and the definitions of the commonly used terms are:
- Company in-Kingdom Saudi Arabian Oil Company in-Kingdom wholly-owned operated assets.
- Operational control Saudi Arabian Oil Company in-Kingdom wholly-owned operated assets, SASREF, Motiva, ARLANXEO, Aramco Trading Company (ATC), Aramco Services Company
(ASC), Aramco Overseas Company B.V. (AOC), and Saudi Aramco Asia Company Ltd. (SAAC).
- Group Saudi Arabian Oil Company, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, and where the context requires, its joint operations, JVs, and associates.
Description of image used: Aramco s Dammam 7 Supercomputer is a highperformance computing system used primarily for scientific research, data analysis, and simulations. It is part of Aramco s efforts to enhance its technological capabilities, particularly in fields like oil and gas exploration, AI, and machine learning. The supercomputer is designed to handle large-scale computational tasks, such as complex modeling, data processing, and simulations, which are crucial for industries like energy and natural resources.
120 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 121
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Our metrics Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Our metrics Climate change and the energy transition Climate change and the energy transition Safe operations and people development
T his figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section of our website.
2. The reporting boundary for this is Company in-Kingdom (including Global Research Centers). As part of Aramco s innovation ecosystem, our Global Research Centers play an enabling role in advancing long-term goals related to energy innovation, sustainability, and operational efficiency. Facilitated through access to top universities and * Metric reported for the first time externally.
global talent, these Global Research Centers help in fostering early-stage research, technology scouting and the creation of novel solutions. A research center s scope and This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section activities are functionally aligned with at least one R&D program, with many centers focusing on multiple objectives and programs. of our website.
122 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 123
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Our metrics continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Safe operations and people development Safe operations and people development Minimizing environmental impact
This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section
* Metric reported for the first time externally of our website.
1. Previously total hours of training and development (per employee). 1. Previously employee engagement score (%).
2. In 2023, a ministerial decision was issued mandating that any establishment with 50 employees and above shall disclose its training data annually as per a specific 2. The Employee Experience Survey is performed every two years. None was conducted in 2023.
procedural guide. Therefore, the 2024 and 2023 training and development hours are reported using the methodology as outlined by the Ministry Procedural Guidelines. 3. This metric is not applicable to our office-based entities: ATC, ASC, AOC and SAAC.
The 2022 figure previously reported in the 2022 Sustainability Report would not be comparable under this methodology, thus this figure is not disclosed in this Report. 4. The Jazan Refinery is excluded from our SOx reporting in 2022. In 2023 and 2024, data from Jazan Refinery s stabilized units is included in our SOx reporting.
124 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 125
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Our metrics continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Minimizing environmental impact Growing societal value This figure has undergone external limited assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance report can be found online in the Sustainability section of our website.
3. The name of this metric was changed from industrial waste generated to industrial waste disposed in 2023. The definition of the metric remained the same.
126 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 127
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Our metrics continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Abbreviations, terms, and glossary Abbreviations, terms, and glossary Growing societal value Currencies scf Standard cubic feet Currency conversion
 All financial amounts in and USD in this Report are Ton reported in line with the exchange rates reported in the Metric ton (equals to 1,000 kg) Aramco Annual Report 2024.
Terms and glossary
 /SAR/Saudi Riyal Affiliate Saudi Arabian Riyal, the lawful currency of the Kingdom Except with respect to financial information, the term
$/USD/US$/Dollar Affiliate means a person who controls another person or US Dollar is controlled by that other person, or who is under common control with that person by a third person. In any of the Units of measurement preceding, control could be direct or indirect.
Barrel (bbl) With respect to financial information, the term Affiliate Barrels of crude oil, condensate or refined products means the Company s subsidiaries, joint arrangements and boe associates, each as defined by IFRS.
Barrels of oil equivalent ARLANXEO bscf ARLANXEO Holding B.V., a wholly-owned specialty Billion standard cubic feet chemicals subsidiary.
Governance bscfd ATC Billion standard cubic feet per day Aramco Trading Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aramco.
Btu British thermal unit BPA Biodiversity Protection Area.
GW ac Gigawatt (alternate current) Carbon credit A tradable instrument that represents either: a permit GW to emit one metric ton of CO or equivalent GHG (tCOe) Gigawatts 2 2 into the atmosphere, or a certificate that represents the Mboed avoidance or removal of one metric ton of CO or equivalent Thousand barrels of oil-equivalent per day GHG (tCOe) from the atmosphere.
MMboed Carbon dioxide (CO) Million barrels of oil-equivalent per day A naturally occurring gas, and also a by-product of burning fossil fuels and biomass, as well as land-use changes, and MMbd other industrial processes. It is the principal greenhouse gas Million barrels per day that affects the Earth s radiative balance. It is the reference MMscf gas against which other greenhouse gases are measured Million standard cubic feet and therefore has a Global Warming Potential of 1.
Carbon capture, and storage (CCS) MMtpa Million metric tons per annum A set of technologies that can mitigate CO emissions from new and existing coal- and gas-fired power plants, MtCO e 2 industrial processes, and other stationary sources of CO .
Thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 2 It is a three-step process that includes the capture of CO MMtCO e from power plants, industrial sources, and/or atmosphere; Million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent the transport of the captured and compressed CO (usually in pipelines); and underground injection and geologic MW sequestration, or permanent storage, of that CO in rock Megawatts formations that contain tiny openings or pores that trap kg CO e/boe per day and hold the CO.
2 Kilogram of carbon dioxide equivalent per barrel of oil Sequestration and storage are often used interchangeably.
* Metric reported for the first time externally in Aramco s Sustainability Report. equivalent per day. Calculation is based on a calendar year
 3.75 1. This metric is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = for convenience only. Carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS)
(Gregorian) 2. Aramco sells certain hydrocarbons within the Kingdom at regulated prices mandated by the Government. The Government implemented an equalization mechanism to A set of technologies that can mitigate CO emissions, where compensate the Company for revenues directly forgone as a result of its compliance with the Government mandates related to crude oil and certain refined products. 2 ppm captured and stored CO is reused in other applications Effective September 17, 2019, the Government implemented an equalization mechanism related to Regulated Gas Products. Effective January 1, 2020, the Government Parts per million 2 expanded the equalization mechanism to include LPGs and certain other products.
e.g., fuels and chemicals .
3. Dividends paid include dividends to shareholders and non-controlling interests in subsidiaries.
4. Figures include income taxes, royalties, and dividends to the Saudi Government.
5. For this metric, Company in-Kingdom refers to Saudi Arabian Oil Company.
128 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 129
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Abbreviations, terms, and glossary continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Carbon intensity CO e Flaring intensity Greenhouse Gas Protocol A measure of GHG emissions in carbon dioxide (CO) Carbon dioxide equivalent; a metric measure used to Volume of gas flared per barrel of oil equivalent produced The GHG Protocol establishes comprehensive global equivalent per unit production. compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases (scf/boe). standardized frameworks to measure and manage based upon their global warming potential (GWP). Carbon greenhouse gas emissions from private and public sector Carbon markets FOQA dioxide equivalents are commonly expressed as million operations, value chains and mitigation actions. It is a Two types of carbon market exist: Flight Operations Quality Assurance.
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents (MMtCOe). The product of the collaboration between the World Resources carbon dioxide equivalent for a gas is derived by multiplying Freshwater Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable
(1) R egulatory compliance markets used by companies and governments that by law have to account for their the tons of the gas by the associated GWP MMtCOe = Groundwater or surface water with total dissolved solids Development (WBCSD).
GHG emissions. It is regulated by mandatory national, (million metric tons of a gas) x (GWP of the gas). concentration up to 2,000 mg/l.
Group regional, or international carbon reduction regimes.
CoBC G20 Saudi Arabian Oil Company, together with its consolidated
(2) V oluntary markets the trade of carbon credits is on Code of Business Conduct. Group of Twenty is an intergovernmental forum comprising subsidiaries and, where the context requires, its joint a voluntarily basis. 19 countries and the European Union (EU). operations, joint ventures, and associates.
Condensate Carbon offset Light hydrocarbon substances produced with raw gas, which GDP GSC condense into liquid at normal temperatures and pressures Group Strategy Committee.
Mitigation credits generated in one location that are Gross domestic product. The broadest quantitative measure transferred to another location or entity, and are usually associated with surface production equipment. of a nation s total economic activity, representing the monetary HR denominated in metric tons of a reduced emission or MWh value of all goods and services produced within a nation s CSI Human Resources.
of renewable energy produced. geographic borders over a specified period of time.
Construction Safety Index.
HSSE CHP GEC Direct Air Capture (DAC) Health, Safety, Security, and Environment.
Combined heat and power. Group Executive Committee.
Technologies and processes that extract CO directly HSE from the atmosphere. The CO can be permanently stored Circular carbon economy Greenhouse gas (GHG) 2 Health, Safety, and Environment.
A framework for managing and reducing emissions. It is in geological formations or used as a feedstock in the Any gas that absorbs infrared radiation in the atmosphere production of fuels, chemicals, building materials, and a closed loop system involving 4Rs: reduce, reuse, recycle, rather than allowing it to radiate into space. Greenhouse HUP and remove. other products containing CO. gases include CO, methane, nitrous oxide, ozone, Hosted University Program.
2 chlorofluorocarbons, hydrochlorofluorocarbons, Circular economy Domestic Hydrocarbons hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, and sulfur An economic system designed and built to retain the highest Refers to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Substances containing only hydrogen and carbon. Fossil hexafluoride.
value of company resources by utilizing sustainable and fuels are made up of hydrocarbons.
E&I environmental business models. GHG avoidance Equity and inclusion. Hydrocarbons law The avoidance of GHG emissions that would otherwise Climate Law governing hydrocarbons, hydrocarbon resources, Ecosystem services occur without the protective actions implemented by an Usually defined as the average weather, or more and hydrocarbon operations existing within the territory The benefits that are derived from biodiversity (and offset project.
rigorously, in terms of the mean and variability of relevant of the Kingdom, enacted by Royal Decree No. M/37, broader nature).
quantities over a period of time ranging from months GHG emission mitigation dated 2/4/1439H (corresponding to December 20, 2017), to millions of years. Emissions The process of reducing CO (GHG) emissions from the as amended.
The release of a substance (usually a gas when referring Company s operations.
Climate change Important Bird and Biodiversity Area (IBA) to the subject of climate change) into the atmosphere.
Any significant change in the measures of climate lasting for GHG reduction A subset of Key Biodiversity Areas (KBAs), specifically an extended period of time. Climate change includes major Emissions reduction A quantified absolute decrease in GHG emissions specifically focusing on sites important for bird conservation, while changes in temperature, precipitation, or wind patterns, A quantified absolute decrease in CO or GHG emissions related to/arising from an activity. KBAs encompass all forms of biodiversity. IBAs are primarily among others, that occur over several decades or longer. specifically related to/arising from an activity. managed by BirdLife International and their partner GHG removal networks, and KBAs are identified using a global standard Cogeneration Energy efficiency Withdrawal of a GHG and/or a precursor from the managed through a partnership coordinated by the IUCN.
A method that uses heat and power systems to capture Using less energy to provide the same service. Energy atmosphere by a GHG sink or GHG removal technology.
waste heat from gas turbines and converts it into steam. efficiency is one of the core strategies for reducing GHG IFRS GHSSE This process captures heat, reducing its escape into the emissions from fossil fuels. International Financial Reporting Standard(s) that are Group Health, Safety, Security, and Environment.
atmosphere, and enables the production of electricity endorsed in the Kingdom and other standards and Energy intensity as a natural by-product. Government pronouncements endorsed by Saudi Organization for An index for measuring the total energy consumed to The Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (and Chartered and Professional Accountants (SOCPA).
Company generate a unit of product, represented in thousand
 Governmental shall be interpreted accordingly).
Saudi Arabian Oil Company (The Company). iktva Btus per total production in barrel of oil equivalent.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions In-Kingdom Total Value Add. The Company s program to Concession Energy transition promote the development of a localized energy/industrial Any gaseous compound in the atmosphere that is capable As defined on page 130 of the Aramco Annual Report 2024. A significant structural change in an energy system.
of absorbing infrared radiation. Generally, consists of water ecosystem.
CO Environment vapor, CO, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, 2 2 Income tax law Carbon dioxide. The natural world, as a whole or in a particular geographical perfluorocarbons, and sulfur hexafluoride. Aramco s Income Tax Law issued under Royal Decree No. M/1 area, especially as affected by human activity. inventory includes CO, methane, and nitrous oxide.
2 dated 15/1/1425H (corresponding to March 6, 2004) and its Implementing Regulations issued under Ministerial Resolution No. 1535 dated 11/6/1425H (corresponding to August 11, 2004), as amended from time to time.
130 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 131
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Abbreviations, terms, and glossary continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data IAAP National PwD Saudi Green Initiative (SGI) International Association of Accessibility Professionals. Refers to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. People with disability. A national initiative that unites environmental protection, energy transition, and sustainability programs with the Ipieca National Champions R&D overarching aim of offsetting and reducing emissions, International Petroleum Industry Environmental Aramco program serving as an incubator to transform Research and development.
increasing the Kingdom s use of clean energy, and Conservation Association. business ideas into enterprises, leading to business growth, Reliability addressing climate change.
job creation, and economic development in Saudi Arabia.
Total products volume shipped/delivered within 24 hours IPO Scope 1 GHG emissions Initial public offering. Natural gas of the scheduled time, divided by the total products volume Direct emissions, which include GHG emissions from on-site Underground deposits of gases consisting of 50% to 90% committed. Any delays caused by factors that are under the ISO fuel combustion, flaring, venting, and fugitive emissions.
methane (CH) and small amounts of heavier gaseous Company s control (e.g., terminal, pipeline, stabilization, International Organization for Standardization. 4 or production) negatively affect the score, whereas delays Scope 2 GHG emissions hydrocarbon compounds such as propane (C H) and 3 8 Joint venture/JV butane (C H ). caused by conditions that are beyond the Company s Indirect emissions, which account for GHG emissions from 4 10 control, such as adverse weather, are not considered. A score offsite power generation including electricity and steam.
The term joint venture, as defined by IFRS, means a type NbS of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint of less than 100% indicates there were issues that negatively Nature-based solutions, which serve as carbon sinks and SCoC impacted reliability.
control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets provide other natural benefits, e.g., mangrove plantations. Supplier Code of Conduct.
of the joint arrangement.
Reserves Net-zero emissions Senior executives/Management Committee Those quantities of liquids and gas, which by analysis of KAUST This is achieved when anthropogenic GHG emissions to The members of the senior management of Aramco holding King Abdullah University of Science and Technology. geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with the atmosphere are balanced by anthropogenic removals. the title of CEO, President, or Executive Vice President.
reasonable certainty to be economically producible from KBA NGL a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under Senior management Key Biodiversity Area.
existing economic conditions, operating methods, and Natural gas liquids, which are liquid or liquefied The senior management and other officers of Aramco who, KFUPM hydrocarbons produced in the manufacture, purification, government regulations prior to the time at which while subordinate to the senior executives, are still involved contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals. and stabilization of natural gas. For purposes of reserves, in the management of Aramco and participate in driving ethane is included in NGL. For purposes of production, evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, its strategies, decisions, or operations.
Kingdom/KSA regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods ethane is reported separately and excluded from NGL.
Shareholder Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
are used for the estimation. The project to extract the Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Any holder of shares.
hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator Lower Carbon Aviation Fuel (LCAF) Gases consisting of one molecule of nitrogen and varying must be reasonably certain that it will commence within Shareek program Defined in Annex 16 Environmental Protection (Volume IV) numbers of oxygen molecules. Nitrogen oxides are a reasonable time.
of the United Nations International Civil Aviation A cooperative government program that is designed to produced in the emissions of vehicle exhausts and from provide support via various pillars, including financial, Organization s Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme power stations. In the atmosphere, nitrogen oxides can ROACE for International Aviation (CORSIA) as a fossil-based aviation monetary, operational, and regulatory cooperation and Return On Average Capital Employed.
contribute to the formation of photochemical ozone (smog), asset investment, striving to enhance the development and fuel that meets the CORSIA Sustainability Criteria. LCAF can can impair visibility, and have health consequences; they serve as a complementary measure alongside Sustainable RSI resilience of the Saudi economy by increasing the gross are thus considered pollutants.
Rig Safety Index. domestic product, providing job opportunities, diversifying Aviation Fuels (SAF) in helping to reduce aviation greenhouse gas (GHG) lifecycle emissions. NORM the economy, and strengthening cooperation between RTP Naturally occurring radioactive material. public and private sectors.
Reinforced Thermo Plastics.
LTI Lost time injuries/illnesses. NPI SME SABIC Net positive impact on biodiversity and ecosystem services Small and medium enterprise.
LPCR Saudi Basic Industries Corporation.
is measured by comparing the surface area of Biodiversity Loss Prevention Compliance Review. SOCPA Protection Areas (BPAs) (km2) against that of Aramco s SASREF Saudi Organization for Chartered and Professional Master Gas System (MGS) operational footprint (km2). Saudi Aramco Jubail Refinery Company, a subsidiary of Accountants.
Aramco, formerly known as Saudi Aramco Shell Refinery An extensive network of pipelines that connects Aramco s Operational control key gas production and processing sites throughout the Company. S-Oil Saudi Arabian Oil Company in-Kingdom wholly-owned Kingdom. S-Oil Corporation.
operated assets, SASREF, Motiva, ARLANXEO, Aramco SATORP Methane (CH) Trading Company (ATC), Aramco Services Company (ASC), Saudi Aramco Total Refining and Petrochemical Company, SRU Aramco Overseas Company B.V. (AOC), and Saudi Aramco a JV established by Aramco and Total Refining Saudi Arabia Sulfur recovery unit.
A hydrocarbon that is a greenhouse gas with a global warming potential most recently estimated at 25 times that Asia Company Ltd. (SAAC). SAS in 2008.
SSC of carbon dioxide (CO). Methane is produced through 2 Original Concession Saudi Aramco/Aramco Sustainability Steering Committee.
anaerobic decomposition of waste in landfills, animal See definition of Concession . Saudi Arabian Oil Company, together with its consolidated digestion, decomposition of animal wastes, production and STEM subsidiaries, and where the context requires, its joint distribution of natural gas and petroleum, coal production, PIF Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
operations, joint ventures, and associates. Any reference and incomplete fossil fuel combustion. Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia.
to us , we , or our refers to Aramco except where Mukamalah Production costs otherwise stated.
The sum of operating costs and depreciation, reflecting both Mukamalah Aviation Company.
Unless otherwise stated, the text does not distinguish the erosion of asset value over time on an accounting basis between the activities and operations of the Company and Namaat and the cost of operating the business.
those of its subsidiaries.
Aramco s industrial investment program.
132 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 133
 Climate change Safe operations Minimizing and the energy and people environmental Growing Abbreviations, terms, and glossary continued Overview transition development impact societal value Governance Data Forward-looking statements Subsidiaries Wa ed Ventures Forward-looking statements Except with respect to financial information, the term Aramco program supporting Saudi Arabia s startup subsidiaries means the companies that Aramco controls ecosystem.
through its ability to influence the actions or decisions of WEF another person through, whether directly or indirectly, World Economic Forum. This Sustainability Report (the Report ) may contain certain - the cyclical nature of the oil and gas, refining, and alone or with a relative or affiliate (i) holding 30% or more forward-looking statements with respect to Aramco s petrochemicals industries; of the voting rights in a Company, or (ii) having the right WSI financial position, results of operations and business,
- political and social instability and unrest and actual to appoint 30% or more of the Board of a Company. Well Safety Index.
and certain of Aramco s plans, intentions, expectations, or potential armed conflicts in the MENA region and With respect to financial information, the term subsidiaries VOCs assumptions, goals, and beliefs and include all matters that other areas; is defined by IFRS, meaning entities over which the Company Volatile organic compounds. are not historical fact and generally, but not always, may be
- Aramco s exposure to inflation, interest rate risk, and has control. identified by the use of words such as believes, expects, YLAB foreign exchange risk;
 are expected to, anticipates, intends, estimates, Sulfur oxides (SOx) Young Leaders Advisory Board. - risks related to operating in a regulated industry and
 should, strive, will, shall, may, is likely to, Gases consisting of one molecule of sulfur and varying changes to oil, gas, environmental, health, safety, or Zero carbon plans, targets, outlooks, goals, or similar numbers of oxygen molecules, such as sulfur dioxide (SO
) other regulations that impact the industries in which 2 expressions, including variations and the negatives thereof Applies only to energy sources, processes, products, and sulfur trioxide (SO ).
Aramco operates; 3 projects, etc., that emit zero carbon emissions. or comparable terminology. These statements include, Sustainable aviation fuels (SAF) among other things, statements about expectations in - legal proceedings, international trade matters, and Renewable or waste-derived aviation fuels that meets connection with Aramco s sustainability initiatives, including other disputes or agreements; and sustainability criteria as contained within Annex 16 the targets and goals set forth in this Report.
- other risks set forth in our Annual Report 2024 available Environmental Protection (Volume IV) of the United Nations Prospective investors should be aware that forward-looking on our website.
International Civil Aviation Organization s Carbon Offsetting statements are not guarantees of future performance and In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA).
that Aramco s actual performance may differ significantly forward-looking statements described in this Report may Synthetic fuels from those made in or suggested by these forward-looking not occur in the manner described or may not occur at all.
statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ A broad class of hydrocarbon fuels that are chemically These forward-looking statements speak only as of the synthesized from hydrogen and CO that is captured either materially from Aramco s expectations, including our goals date of this Report. We undertake no obligation to update related to sustainability, and mitigating our environmental directly from the air or from industrial installations.
or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a impact, safe operations and people development, and result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Taleed growing societal value within the Kingdom, include, among All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements Aramco program supporting scalable and sustainable job other things, the following: attributable to us or to persons acting on our behalf are growth for Saudi SMEs.
- the inability to successfully meet the targets set forth in expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary Tier 1 process safety event statements referred to above and contained elsewhere in this Report, including through the management of GHG An unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material, emissions; the inability to meet our plastic waste and this Report. Undue reliance should not be placed on the including non-toxic and non-flammable materials, from forward-looking statements.
water management targets or successfully protect a process that results in one or more of the consequences biodiversity; the inability to develop and deploy Except where noted, the information covered in this Report listed in API Recommended Practice-754.
technology solutions to allow us to deliver the benefits highlights the Company s performance and initiatives in of oil and gas hydrocarbons for future generations; Total recordable case (TRC) rate fiscal year 2024. The inclusion of information in this Report Sum of recordable cases that occurred in the workplace
- global supply, demand and price fluctuations of oil, gas, should not be construed as a characterization regarding the per 200,000 work hours. refined products, and petrochemicals; materiality or financial impact (or potential impact) of that information. Sections of this Report have been prepared TSI - global economic market conditions; with reference to and guidance from various reporting Turnaround Safety Index. - competition in the industries in which Aramco operates; frameworks, standards, and guidelines, as outlined at the UN SDGs - climate change concerns, weather conditions, and related start of this Report. The Company s application of the impacts on the global demand for hydrocarbons and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. various frameworks, standards, and guidelines is based hydrocarbon-based products; on its interpretation and judgment.
Upstream carbon intensity
- risks related to Aramco s ability to successfully meet its A measure of greenhouse gas in carbon dioxide (CO) This Report may contain references to links to or information sustainability targets, including its failure to fully meet its equivalent emitted to produce a barrel of oil equivalent. from other internet sites. Such links and information are GHG emission reduction targets by 2050; Upstream carbon intensity is calculated based on the total not endorsements of any products or services on such sites,
- conditions affecting the transportation of products; upstream Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions divided by are not being incorporated by reference herein, and no the upstream marketed production and excludes sales gas - operational risk and hazards common in the oil and gas, information on such sites has been endorsed or approved own use and AGOC, as found on the assurance statement. refining, and petrochemicals industries; by Aramco.
U.S./United States/USA United States of America.
134 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024 135
 This document should be read together with Aramco s public reporting, including our Annual Report, our website, and our policies.
P lease see our Annual Report Please visit www.aramco.com P lease visit www.aramco.com/ 2024 at www.aramco.com/en/ for more information sustainability for more investors/annual-report information on our approach to sustainability, our basis of preparation, and our independent assurance statements for 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024 Contact us Social media We hope you find this Report engaging and We are also active on the below social media informative, and we continue to welcome platforms, so please follow us to learn more your input and views: about Aramco and our sustainability journey: sustainability@aramco.com @aramco
@ linkedin.com/company/aramco This Report is printed on paper certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council ) and is recyclable and acid-free.
136 Aramco Sustainability Report 2024
 Aramco Global Dhahran Aramco P.O. Box 5000 Dhahran 31311 Kingdom of Saudi Arabia aramco.com
| 0 | 1 |
|:----|:------------------------------------------------------------|
| | Corporate governance |
| | We recognize the importance of good governance, which |
| | Accordingly, the Nomination Committee takes E&I into |
| | is integral in fostering transparency, accountability, and |
| | account when reviewing the Board s composition, as well as |
| | ethical conduct across our business. Corporate governance |
| | when nominating new Director candidates. The Committee |
| | practices in Aramco are guided by a set of governance |
| | also considers each Director s professional experience, |
| | policies and procedures, in line with the Corporate |
| | integrity, honesty, judgment, independence, accountability, |
| | Governance Regulations as well as Company-relevant |
| | willingness to express independent thought, and |
| | global ethics and compliance policies. |
| | understanding of the Company s business. |
| | The 11 members of the Board in 2024 include senior |
| | Board composition |
| | Saudi Government appointees and former senior executives |
| | The Board of Directors values independence and diversity |
| | from the international oil and gas, chemical, petroleum |
| | of talent, skills, viewpoints, and experience, and believes |
| | refining, and finance industries, five of whom are |
| | that such diversity enhances the performance of the Board |
| | independent. The relevant Director skills and experience |
| | in discharging its oversight duties. |
| | are presented in the table below: |
|:----|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| | Director skills and experience |
| | Skills and experience |
| | Definition |
| | Members |
| | 11 |
| | Executive leadership |
| | Possesses a deep understanding of organizations and strategy to assist |
| | experience |
| | the Board in oversight of the Company s global operations and strategic |
| | planning. |
| | Financial experience |
| | Brings valuable financial experience to the Board, including oversight |
| | of financial reporting, internal controls, financial disclosure, investment |
| | and portfolio management, and/or trading. |
| | Risk management |
| | Aids the Board in its risk oversight and can effectively identify, prioritize, |
| | and manage a broad spectrum of risks. |
| | Metrics |
| | 2024 |
| | 2023 |
| | 2022 |
| | 9 |
| | Global business leadership |
| | Provides perspective on diverse business environments, customers, |
| | Number of independent Board members |
| | 5 |
| | and supply chains associated with the Company s global business |
| | and strategy. |
| | Number of females on Board |
| | 1 |
| | Supports the Board in assessing and responding to evolving legal and |
| | 8 |
| | Regulatory, legal, public |
| | 4 |
| | Number of nationalities on Board* |
| | regulatory environments. |
| | policy, and government |
| | Board composition by average tenure (years) |
| | 7 |
| | 6 |
| | Other public company |
| | Aids the Board with an understanding of issues commonly faced by |
| | Board composition by average age (years) |
| | 63.54 |
| | 63.45 |
| | 62.45 |
| | Board experience |
| | public companies, and provides insight on corporate governance |
| | Board members average attendance (%) |
| | 100 |
| | practices and trends. |
| | Energy and chemicals |
| | Demonstrates a practical understanding of the energy and chemicals |
| | industry expertise |
| | industry and provides valuable perspective on issues specific to the |
| | The effectiveness of the Board is also promoted through |
| | Additional information on Aramco s governance, including |
| | Company s business. |
| | procedures and practices that ensure accountability. In 2024, |
| | the profile of each Board member, can be found in the |
| | the Board members attended all Board meetings. The Board |
| | Aramco Annual Report 2024 in the Organizational Structure |
| | Assists the Board in overseeing the Company s leadership in |
| | Technology, innovation, |
| | has also performed its annual self-assessments as part of |
| | and Corporate Governance section. |
| | technological change and innovation including with respect to the |
| | cybersecurity, and scientific |
| | Board evaluations, which provide insights into the Board |
| | Company s sustainability initiatives. |
| | effectiveness and areas for improvements. |
|:----|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| | Growing societal value |
| | Material issue |
| | Relevant metric |
| | 2024 Actual |
| | 2024 Boundaries |
| | 2023 Actual |
| | 2023 Boundaries |
| | 2022 Actual |
| | 2022 Boundaries |
| | Abbreviations, terms, and glossary |
| | Direct economic value generated and distributed1: |
| | Economic |
| | scf |
| | Currencies |
| | contribution |
| | Revenues ($ million) |
| | 436,613 |
| | Group |
| | 440,875 |
| | 535,188 |
| | Standard cubic feet |
| | Currency conversion |
| | Other income related to sales2 |
| | 43,833 |
| | 54,158 |
| | 69,178 |
| | All financial amounts in and USD in this Report are |
| | Ton |
| | ($ million) |
| | reported in line with the exchange rates reported in the |
| | Metric ton (equals to 1,000 kg) |
| | Operating costs ($ million) |
| | 273,879 |
| | 263,489 |
| | 299,279 |
| | Aramco Annual Report 2024. |
| | Terms and glossary |
| | Employee wages and benefits |
| | 17,974 |
| | 16,088 |
| | 14,665 |
| | /SAR/Saudi Riyal |
| | Affiliate |
| | Saudi Arabian Riyal, the lawful currency of the Kingdom |
| | Except with respect to financial information, the term |
| | Dividends paid includes |
| | 127,427 |
| | 101,628 |
| | 78,863 |
| | dividends to shareholders and |
| | Affiliate means a person who controls another person or |
| | $/USD/US$/Dollar |
| | non-controlling interests in |
| | is controlled by that other person, or who is under common |
| | US Dollar |
| | subsidiaries3 ($ million) |
| | control with that person by a third person. In any of the |
| | Units of measurement |
| | Payments to the Saudi and |
| | 204,072 |
| | 205,553 |
| | 229,995 |
| | preceding, control could be direct or indirect. |
| | foreign governments4 |
| | Barrel (bbl) |
| | With respect to financial information, the term Affiliate |
| | Barrels of crude oil, condensate or refined products |
| | means the Company s subsidiaries, joint arrangements and |
| | 199,674 |
| | 199,754 |
| | 226,426 |
| | Payments to the Saudi |
| | boe |
| | government4 ($ million) |
| | associates, each as defined by IFRS. |
| | Barrels of oil equivalent |
| | Total R&D expenses ($ million) |
| | 1,550 |
| | 1,386 |
| | 1,178 |
| | ARLANXEO |
| | bscf |
| | ARLANXEO Holding B.V., a wholly-owned specialty |
| | Billion standard cubic feet |
| | chemicals subsidiary. |
| | Governance |
| | bscfd |
| | ATC |
| | Billion standard cubic feet per day |
| | Aramco Trading Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary |
| | of Aramco. |
| | Number of independent Board |
| | Company |
| | Corporate |
| | Btu |
| | members |
| | in-Kingdom5 |
| | governance |
| | British thermal unit |
| | BPA |
| | Biodiversity Protection Area. |
| | GWac |
| | Gigawatt (alternate current) |
| | Carbon credit |
| | A tradable instrument that represents either: a permit |
| | GW |
| | to emit one metric ton of CO2 or equivalent GHG (tCO2e) |
| | Board composition by average |
| | Gigawatts |
| | into the atmosphere, or a certificate that represents the |
| | tenure (year) |
| | Mboed |
| | avoidance or removal of one metric ton of CO2 or equivalent |
| | Thousand barrels of oil-equivalent per day |
| | GHG (tCO2e) from the atmosphere. |
| | age (year) |
| | Board members' average |
| | MMboed |
| | Carbon dioxide (CO2) |
| | attendance (%) |
| | Million barrels of oil-equivalent per day |
| | A naturally occurring gas, and also a by-product of burning |
| | Number of allegations received |
| | 968 |
| | 826 |
| | 655 |
| | fossil fuels and biomass, as well as land-use changes, and |
| | Ethics and |
| | MMbd |
| | through the 24-hour hotline |
| | in-Kingdom |
| | compliance |
| | other industrial processes. It is the principal greenhouse gas |
| | Million barrels per day |
| | that affects the Earth s radiative balance. It is the reference |
| | Anti-bribery and anti-corruption |
| | 23,652 |
| | 27,674 |
| | 22,575 |
| | training hours |
| | gas against which other greenhouse gases are measured |
| | MMscf |
| | and therefore has a Global Warming Potential of 1. |
| | Million standard cubic feet |
| | Carbon capture, and storage (CCS) |
| | MMtpa |
| | Million metric tons per annum |
| | A set of technologies that can mitigate CO2 emissions |
| | from new and existing coal- and gas-fired power plants, |
| | MtCO2e |
| | industrial processes, and other stationary sources of CO2. |
| | Thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent |
| | It is a three-step process that includes the capture of CO2 |
| | from power plants, industrial sources, and/or atmosphere; |
| | MMtCO2e |
| | Million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent |
| | the transport of the captured and compressed CO2 (usually |
| | in pipelines); and underground injection and geologic |
| | MW |
| | sequestration, or permanent storage, of that CO2 in rock |
| | Megawatts |
| | formations that contain tiny openings or pores that trap |
| | and hold the CO2. |
| | kg CO2e/boe per day |
| | Kilogram of carbon dioxide equivalent per barrel of oil |
| | Sequestration and storage are often used interchangeably. |
| | * Metric reported for the first time externally in Aramco s Sustainability Report. |
| | equivalent per day. Calculation is based on a calendar year |
| | 1. This metric is converted at a fixed rate of U.S. dollar 1.00 = 3.75 for convenience only. |
| | Carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS) |
| | (Gregorian) |
| | 2. Aramco sells certain hydrocarbons within the Kingdom at regulated prices mandated by the Government. The Government implemented an equalization mechanism to |
| | compensate the Company for revenues directly forgone as a result of its compliance with the Government mandates related to crude oil and certain refined products. |
| | A set of technologies that can mitigate CO2 emissions, where |
| | ppm |
| | Effective September 17, 2019, the Government implemented an equalization mechanism related to Regulated Gas Products. Effective January 1, 2020, the Government |
| | captured and stored CO2 is reused in other applications |
| | Parts per million |
| | expanded the equalization mechanism to include LPGs and certain other products. |
| | e.g., fuels and chemicals. |
| | 3. Dividends paid include dividends to shareholders and non-controlling interests in subsidiaries. |
| | 4. Figures include income taxes, royalties, and dividends to the Saudi Government. |