Disclosure 2-5 in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 requires the organization to describe its policy and practice for

seeking external assurance for its sustainability reporting. If the sustainability reporting has been externally assured,
the organization is also required to describe what was assured and on what basis.
External assurance comprises activities carried out by assurance providers to assess the quality and credibility of the
qualitative and quantitative information reported by the organization. External assurance can also be used to assess
the organization's systems or processes to prepare the information (e.g., the process of determining material topics).
External assurance is different from activities used to assess or validate the performance, such as compliance
assessments or the issuing of performance certifications.
External assurance results in published assurance reports or conclusions that can be used to verify that the
information has been prepared in accordance with reporting standards. It can also be used to reduce risk in data
quality and increase trust in the reported information. This, in turn, helps information users and the organization rely
on the reported information for their decision-making.
External assurance should be conducted by competent assurance providers with appropriate experience and
qualifications. Assurance providers should be:
• independent from the organization and therefore able to reach impartial and objective conclusions about the
organization’s reporting and to publish these conclusions in a report that is publicly available;
• demonstrably competent in the subject matter and assurance practices;
25 GRI 1: Foundation 2021
• competent in applying quality control procedures to the assurance engagement;
• able to conduct the engagement in a manner that is systematic, documented, evidence-based, and characterized
by defined procedures in line with professional standards for assurance;
• able to consider the selection of the information reported as well as its accuracy, and to assess whether the
reporting provides a comprehensive picture of the organization’s most significant impacts and how it manages
these impacts;
• able to assess the extent to which the organization has applied the GRI Standards in formulating opinions or
reaching conclusions.
Stakeholder or expert panels
The organization can also convene a stakeholder or expert panel to seek views on its approach to sustainability
reporting or for advice on the information to be reported.
26 GRI 1: Foundation 2021