Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3.

Guidance to 5-b
14 GRI 1: Foundation 2021
The organization is required to comply with Requirement 5-b only if GRI Sector Standards that apply to its sectors are
available. The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics.
The organization is required to review each topic described in the applicable Sector Standards and determine
whether it is a material topic for the organization.
If the organization determines a topic in an applicable Sector Standard to be material, the Sector Standard helps the
organization identify disclosures to report information about its impacts in relation to that topic. For each likely material
topic, the Sector Standards list disclosures from the GRI Topic Standards for organizations to report. If any of the Topic
Standards disclosures listed in the Sector Standards are not relevant to the organization’s impacts, the organization
is not required to report these. However, the organization is required to list these disclosures in the GRI content index
and provide ‘not applicable’ as the reason for omission for not reporting the disclosures. The organization is also
required to explain in brief why the disclosures are not relevant to its impacts in relation to the material topic. See
Requirement 6 in this Standard for more information on reasons for omission.
Note that when reporting the Topic Standards disclosures listed in the Sector Standards, the organization can still use
any of the four reasons for omission included in Table 1 of this Standard if it cannot comply with the disclosure or with
a requirement in the disclosure.
Besides the disclosures from the Topic Standards, the Sector Standards may list additional sector disclosures for
organizations to report. Reporting these additional sector disclosures is a recommendation. The organization is not
required to provide a reason for omission for the additional sector disclosures it does not report.
Requirement 6: Provide reasons for omission for disclosures
and requirements that the organization cannot comply with
a. If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure for which reasons
for omission are permitted, the organization shall in the GRI content index:
i. specify the disclosure or the requirement it cannot comply with;
ii. provide one of the four reasons for omission included in Table 1 and the required explanation for that
reason.
Table 1. Permitted reasons for omission and required explanations
REASON FOR OMISSION REQUIRED EXPLANATION
Not applicable Explain why the disclosure or the requirement is considered not
applicable.
Legal prohibitions Describe the specific legal prohibitions.
Confidentiality constraints Describe the specific confidentiality constraints.
Information unavailable / Specify which information is unavailable or incomplete. When
incomplete the information is incomplete, specify which part is missing (e.g.,
specify the entities for which the information is missing).
Explain why the required information is unavailable or
incomplete.
Describe the steps being taken and the expected time frame to
obtain the information.
Guidance
Reasons for omission are permitted for all disclosures from the GRI Standards except for:
• Disclosure 2-1 Organizational details
• Disclosure 2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting
• Disclosure 2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point
• Disclosure 2-4 Restatements of information
• Disclosure 2-5 External assurance
• Disclosure 3-1 Process to determine material topics
15 GRI 1: Foundation 2021
• Disclosure 3-2 List of material topics
The organization is only permitted to provide one of the four reasons for omission included in Table 1 of this Standard:
Not applicable
The organization provides ‘not applicable’ as the reason for omission in the following situations:
• When a disclosure or a requirement in a disclosure does not apply to the organization based on its characteristics
(e.g., size, type). For example, 2-15-b-iii in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 requires the organization to report
whether conflicts of interest relating to the existence of controlling shareholders are disclosed to stakeholders.
This requirement does not apply to organizations that do not have shareholders (e.g., foundations).
In such cases, the organization is required to explain why the disclosure or the requirement does not apply to the
organization.
However, there may be cases where a disclosure or a requirement in a disclosure applies to the organization, but
the organization does not have in place the item specified in the disclosure or in the requirement (e.g., committee,
policy, practice, process). For example, 2-23-b in GRI 2 requires the organization to describe its policy
commitment to respect human rights. This expectation applies to every organization. All organizations are
expected to have a policy commitment to respect human rights, but not every organization may have developed
such a policy commitment yet.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be
the case. It does not need to provide the ‘not applicable’ reason for omission.
In such cases, the organization can explain the reasons for not having this item or describe any plans to develop it.
The disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that
the item does not exist.
• When a disclosure from the GRI Topic Standards that is listed in the applicable GRI Sector Standards is not
relevant to the organization’s impacts in relation to a material topic. In such cases, the organization is required to
explain why the disclosure is not relevant to its impacts in relation to the material topic.
Legal prohibitions
The organization provides ‘legal prohibitions’ as the reason for omission when the law forbids collecting the required
information or reporting it publicly.
Confidentiality constraints
There may be cases where the law does not forbid collecting or reporting the required information, but the
organization considers the information confidential and cannot report it publicly. In such cases, the organization
provides ‘confidentiality constraints’ as the reason for omission.
Information unavailable / incomplete
There may be cases where the organization has the item specified in a disclosure or in a requirement in a disclosure,
but the information about the item is unavailable or incomplete. In such cases, the organization provides ‘information
unavailable / incomplete’ as the reason for omission. For example, information is unavailable for Disclosure 305-3 in
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 when the organization has other indirect (Scope 3) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, but it
has not collected data on its other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions yet.
When the organization cannot report part of the required information it means the information is incomplete. When the
reported information does not cover the complete scope required by a disclosure (e.g., the information is missing for
certain entities, sites, geographic locations), then the organization is required to provide ‘information unavailable /
incomplete’ as the reason for omission. The organization must specify the entities, sites, geographic locations, etc.,
for which the required information is missing and cannot be reported.
The required information, or part of the required information, can be unavailable when, for example, it cannot be
obtained or is not of adequate quality to report. This may be the case when the information is collected from another
organization, such as a supplier.
16 GRI 1: Foundation 2021
The reasons ‘confidentiality constraints’ and ‘information unavailable / incomplete’ should only be used in exceptional
cases. Using ‘confidentiality constraints’ and ‘information unavailable / incomplete’ frequently as reasons for omitting
information reduces the credibility and usefulness of the organization’s sustainability reporting. It does not align with
the aim of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards, which is to provide a comprehensive picture of the
organization’s most significant impacts.
The organization is not allowed to use other reasons for omission than those included in Table 1 of this Standard.
The organization is required to report reasons for omission in the GRI content index. See Requirement 7 in this
Standard for more information on the content index.
Requirement 7: Publish a GRI content index
The organization shall:
a. publish a GRI content index that includes:
i. the title: GRI content index;
ii. the statement of use;
iii. the title of GRI 1 used;
iv. the title(s) of the GRI Sector Standard(s) that apply to the organization’s sector(s);
v. a list of the organization’s material topics;
vi. a list of the topics in the applicable GRI Sector Standard(s) determined as not material and an
explanation for why they are not material;
vii. a list of the reported disclosures, including the disclosure titles;
viii. the titles of the GRI Standards and other sources that the reported disclosures come from;
ix. when the organization does not report GRI Topic Standard disclosures for a material topic from the
applicable GRI Sector Standard(s), a list of the disclosures and the required reason for omission;
x. the GRI Sector Standard reference numbers for the disclosures from the applicable Sector Standard(s);
xi. the location where the information reported for each disclosure can be found;
xii. any reasons for omission used;
b. if it publishes a standalone sustainability report and the GRI content index is not included in the report itself,
provide a link or reference to the GRI content index in the report.
Guidance
The information reported using the GRI Standards can be published or made accessible in a range of formats (e.g.,
electronic, paper-based) across one or more locations (e.g., a standalone sustainability report, web pages, an annual
report). The GRI content index provides an overview of the organization’s reported information, shows where the
reported information can be found, and helps information users access this information. The content index also
shows which GRI Standards and disclosures the organization has used.
Appendix 1 of this Standard provides guidance on how to prepare the GRI content index when reporting in accordance
with the GRI Standards. It includes an example that the organization can use to prepare the content index. The
organization can use a different format for the content index than the one provided in Appendix 1, as long as it
complies with the requirements for the content index.
Requirement 8: Provide a statement of use
a. The organization shall include the following statement in its GRI content index:
[Name of organization] has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period [reporting period
start and end dates].
Guidance
To state that the organization has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards, the organization must have
complied with all nine requirements in this section.
The organization is required to insert the name of the organization and the start and end dates of its reporting period
in the statement, for example:
17 GRI 1: Foundation 2021
‘ABC Limited has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period from 1 January 2022 to 31 December
2022.’
The organization is required to report whether the highest governance body is responsible for reviewing and
approving the reported information, including the organization’s material topics, under Disclosure 2-14 in GRI 2:
General Disclosures 2021.
Requirement 9: Notify GRI
a. The organization shall notify GRI of the use of the GRI Standards and the statement of use by sending an
email to reportregistration@globalreporting.org.
Guidance
The organization should include the following information in the email:
• The legal name of the organization.
• The link to the GRI content index.
• The link to the report, if publishing a standalone sustainability report.
• The statement of use.
• A contact person in the organization and their contact details.
There is no cost associated with notifying GRI of the use of the GRI Standards.
18 GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Reporting with reference to the GRI Standards
An organization can report with reference to the GRI Standards if it cannot comply with all the requirements for
reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards. The organization should transition to reporting in accordance with the
GRI Standards in time as it will provide a comprehensive picture of the organization’s most significant impacts on the
economy, environment, and people, including impacts on their human rights.
The organization can also report with reference to the GRI Standards if it uses selected GRI Standards, or parts of
their content, to report information about specific topics for specific purposes, such as complying with a reporting
regulation on climate change.
The organization must comply with all three requirements in this section to report with reference to the GRI Standards.
The organization should also apply the reporting principles specified in section 4 of this Standard to ensure high-
quality reporting. Additionally, the organization should explain how it manages its impacts for the topics it reports on
using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021.
Overview of requirements for reporting with reference to the GRI Standards
Publish a GRI content index
Provide a statement of use
Notify GRI
Publish a GRI content index
The organization shall:
a. publish a GRI content index that includes:
i. the title: GRI content index;
ii. the statement of use;
iii. the title of GRI 1 used;
iv. a list of the reported disclosures from the GRI Standards, including the disclosure titles;
v. the titles of the GRI Standards that the reported disclosures come from;
vi. the location where the information reported for each disclosure can be found;
b. if it publishes a standalone sustainability report and the GRI content index is not included in the report itself,
provide a link or reference to the GRI content index in the report.
Guidance
The information reported using the GRI Standards can be published or made accessible in a range of formats (e.g.,
electronic, paper-based) across one or more locations (e.g., a standalone sustainability report, web pages, an annual
report). The GRI content index provides an overview of the organization’s reported information, shows where the
reported information can be found, and helps information users access this information. The content index also
shows which GRI Standards and disclosures the organization has used.
Appendix 2 of this Standard provides guidance on how to prepare the GRI content index when reporting with reference
to the GRI Standards. It includes an example that the organization can use to prepare the content index. The
organization can use a different format for the content index than the one provided in Appendix 2, as long as it
complies with the requirements for the content index. The organization can also use the content index specified for
reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards in Appendix 1 of this Standard, if suitable. In such a case, the
statement of use in Appendix 1, which is for reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards, must be replaced by the
statement of use for reporting with reference to the GRI Standards.
19 GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Provide a statement of use
a. The organization shall include the following statement in its GRI content index:
[Name of organization] has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period [reporting
period start and end dates] with reference to the GRI Standards.
Guidance
To state that the organization has reported with reference to the GRI Standards, the organization must have complied
with all three requirements in this section.
The organization is required to insert the name of the organization and the start and end dates of its reporting period
in the statement, for example:
‘ABC Limited has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period from 1 January 2022 to 31
December 2022 with reference to the GRI Standards.’
Notify GRI
a. The organization shall notify GRI of the use of the GRI Standards and the statement of use by sending an
email to reportregistration@globalreporting.org.
Guidance
The organization should include the following information in the email:
• The legal name of the organization.
• The link to the GRI content index.
• The link to the report, if publishing a standalone sustainability report.
• The statement of use.
• A contact person in the organization and their contact details.
There is no cost associated with notifying GRI of the use of the GRI Standards.
20 GRI 1: Foundation 2021
4. Reporting principles
The reporting principles are fundamental to achieving high-quality sustainability reporting. Therefore, an organization
is required to apply the reporting principles to be able to claim that it has prepared the reported information in
accordance with the GRI Standards (see section 3 in this Standard).
The reporting principles guide the organization in ensuring the quality and proper presentation of the reported
information. High-quality information allows information users to make informed assessments and decisions about
the organization’s impacts and its contribution to sustainable development.
Each reporting principle consists of a requirement and guidance on how to apply it.
Overview of principles
• Accuracy
• Balance
• Clarity
• Comparability
• Completeness
• Sustainability context
• Timeliness
• Verifiability
Accuracy
Requirement
a. The organization shall report information that is correct and sufficiently detailed to allow an assessment of
the organization’s impacts.
Guidance
The characteristics that determine accuracy vary depending on the nature of the information (qualitative or quantitative)
and the intended use of the information. The accuracy of quantitative information depends on the specific methods
used to gather, compile, and analyze data. The accuracy of qualitative information depends on the level of detail and
consistency with the available evidence. Information users require sufficient detail to make assessments about the
organization’s impacts.
To apply the Accuracy principle, the organization should:
• report qualitative information that is consistent with available evidence and other reported information;
• indicate which data has been measured;
• adequately describe data measurements and bases for calculations, and ensure it is possible to replicate
measurements and calculations with similar results;
• ensure that the margin of error for data measurements does not inappropriately influence the conclusions or
assessments of information users;
• indicate which data has been estimated, and explain the underlying assumptions and techniques used for the
estimation as well as any limitations of the estimates.
21 GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Balance
Requirement
a. The organization shall report information in an unbiased way and provide a fair representation of the
organization’s negative and positive impacts.
Guidance
To apply the Balance principle, the organization should:
• present information in a way that allows information users to see negative and positive year-on-year trends in
impacts;
• distinguish clearly between facts and the organization’s interpretation of the facts;
• not omit relevant information concerning its negative impacts;
• not overemphasize positive news or impacts;
• not present information in a way that is likely to inappropriately influence the conclusions or assessments of
information users.
Clarity
Requirement
a. The organization shall present information in a way that is accessible and understandable.
Guidance
To apply the Clarity principle, the organization should:
• consider specific accessibility needs of information users, associated with abilities, language, and technology;
• present information in a way that users can find the information they want without unreasonable effort, for example,
through a table of contents, maps, or links;
• present information in a way that it can be understood by users who have reasonable knowledge of the
organization and its activities;
• avoid abbreviations, technical terms, or other jargon likely to be unfamiliar to users or, if these are used, include
relevant explanations in the appropriate sections or in a glossary;
• report information in a concise way and aggregate information where useful without omitting necessary details;
• use graphics and consolidated data tables to make information accessible and understandable.
Comparability
Requirement
a. The organization shall select, compile, and report information consistently to enable an analysis of changes
in the organization’s impacts over time and an analysis of these impacts relative to those of other
organizations.
Guidance
Information reported in a comparable way enables the organization and other information users to assess the
organization’s current impacts against its past impacts and its goals and targets. It also enables external parties to
assess and benchmark the organization’s impacts against impacts of other organizations as part of rating activities,
investment decisions, and advocacy programs.
To apply the Comparability principle, the organization should:
• present information for the current reporting period and at least two previous periods, as well as any goals and
targets that have been set;
• use accepted international metrics (e.g., kilograms, liters), and standard conversion factors and protocols, where
applicable, for compiling and reporting information;
• maintain consistency in the methods used to measure and calculate data and in explaining the methods and
assumptions used;
• maintain consistency in the manner of presenting the information;
• report total numbers or absolute data (e.g., metric tons of CO equivalent) as well as ratios or normalized data
2
(e.g., CO emissions per unit produced) to enable comparisons, and provide explanatory notes when using ratios;
2
22 GRI 1: Foundation 2021
• provide contextual information (e.g., the organization’s size, geographic location) to help information users
understand the factors that contribute to differences between the organization’s impacts and the impacts of other
organizations;
• present the current disclosures alongside restatements of historical data to enable comparisons if there have
been changes from the information reported previously. This can include changes in the length of the reporting
period, in the measurement methodologies, in the definitions used, or in other elements of reporting. The
organization is required to report restatements of information under Disclosure 2-4 in GRI 2: General Disclosures
2021;
• if restatements of historical data are not provided, explain the changes to provide contextual information for
interpreting the current disclosures.
Completeness
Requirement
a. The organization shall provide sufficient information to enable an assessment of the organization’s impacts
during the reporting period.
Guidance
To apply the Completeness principle, the organization should:
• present activities, events, and impacts for the reporting period in which they occur. This includes reporting
information about activities that have a minimal impact in the short-term, but a reasonably foreseeable cumulative
impact that can become unavoidable or irreversible in the long-term (e.g., activities that generate bio-accumulative
or persistent pollutants);
• not omit information that is necessary for understanding the organization’s impacts.
If the organization consists of multiple entities (i.e., a parent entity and its subordinate entities), the organization is
required to explain the approach used for consolidating the information under 2-2-c in GRI 2: General Disclosures
2021.
If the information for a disclosure or a requirement in a disclosure for which reasons for omission are permitted is
unavailable or incomplete, then the organization is required to provide a reason for omission. When information is
incomplete, the organization is required to specify which part is missing (e.g., specify the entities for which the
information is missing). See Requirement 6 in this Standard for more information.
Sustainability context
Requirement
a. The organization shall report information about its impacts in the wider context of sustainable development.
Guidance
Sustainable development has been defined as ‘development which meets the needs of the present without
compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs’ [8]. The objective of sustainability reporting
using the GRI Standards is to provide transparency on how an organization contributes or aims to contribute to
sustainable development. For this purpose, the organization needs to assess and report information about its
impacts in the wider context of sustainable development.
To apply the Sustainability context principle, the organization should:
• draw on objective information and authoritative measures on sustainable development to report information about
its impacts (e.g., scientific research or consensus on the limits and demands placed on environmental
resources);
• report information about its impacts in relation to sustainable development goals and conditions (e.g., reporting
total greenhouse gas [GHG] emissions as well as reductions in GHG emissions in relation to the goals set out in
the United Nations [UN] Framework Convention on Climate Change [FCCC] Paris Agreement [4]);
• report information about its impacts in relation to societal expectations and expectations of responsible business
conduct set out in authoritative intergovernmental instruments with which the organization is expected to comply
(e.g., Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development [OECD] Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
[3], UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights [5]) and in other recognized sector-specific, local,
regional, or global instruments;
• if operating in a range of locations, report information about its impacts in relation to appropriate local contexts
(e.g., reporting total water use, as well as water use relative to the sustainable thresholds and the social context of
given catchments).
23 GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Understanding the sustainability context provides the organization with critical information to determine and report on
its material topics (see GRI 3: Material Topics 2021). The GRI Sector Standards describe the sectors’ context and can
help the organization understand its sustainability context.
Timeliness
Requirement
a. The organization shall report information on a regular schedule and make it available in time for information
users to make decisions.
Guidance
The usefulness of information is closely tied to whether it is available in time for information users to integrate it into
their decision-making. Thus, the Timeliness principle refers to how regularly and how soon after the reporting period
the information is published.
To apply the Timeliness principle, the organization should:
• find a balance between the need to make information available in a timely manner and ensuring that the
information is of high quality and meets the requirements under the other reporting principles;
• ensure consistency in the length of reporting periods;
• indicate the time period covered by the reported information.
See section 5.1 in this Standard for information on aligning the reporting periods and publishing schedules of
sustainability reporting and other types of reporting.
Verifiability
Requirement
a. The organization shall gather, record, compile, and analyze information in such a way that the information
can be examined to establish its quality.
Guidance
It is important that the reported information can be examined to establish its veracity and to determine the extent to
which the reporting principles have been applied.
To apply the Verifiability principle, the organization should:
• set up internal controls and organize documentation in such a way that individuals other than those preparing the
reported information (e.g., internal auditors, external assurance providers) can review them;
• document the decision-making processes underlying the organization’s sustainability reporting in a way that
allows for the examination of the key decisions and processes, such as the process of determining material
topics;
• if the organization designs information systems for its sustainability reporting, design these systems in a way that
they can be examined as part of an external assurance process;
• be able to identify the original sources of the reported information and provide reliable evidence to support
assumptions or calculations;
• be able to provide representation from the original sources of the reported information attesting to the accuracy of
the information within acceptable margins of error;
• avoid including information that is not substantiated by evidence unless it is relevant for understanding the
organization’s impacts;
• provide clear explanations of any uncertainties associated with the reported information.
See section 5.2 in this Standard for more information on enhancing the credibility of the organization’s sustainability
reporting.
24 GRI 1: Foundation 2021
5. Additional recommendations for reporting
This section presents recommendations for an organization to align its sustainability reporting with other types of
reporting and to enhance the credibility of its sustainability reporting.
5.1 Aligning sustainability reporting with other reporting
An organization should align its sustainability reporting with other statutory and regulatory reporting, in particular its
financial reporting. This means that the organization should report the information for the same reporting period and
for the same group of entities as covered in its financial reporting. The organization should also publish the
information at the same time as its financial reporting, where this is possible.
5.2 Enhancing the credibility of sustainability reporting
There are several ways in which an organization can enhance the credibility of its sustainability reporting. These
include the use of internal controls, external assurance, and stakeholder or expert panels. The organization is not
required to apply these methods when reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards but is encouraged to do so.
Internal controls
The organization should set up internal controls to strengthen the integrity and credibility of its sustainability reporting.
Internal controls are processes designed and implemented by the organization, generally its management, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of its objectives.
Internal controls can be implemented in day-to-day operations and through compliance functions. The organization
can also establish and maintain an internal audit function as part of its processes for risk management to further
improve the credibility of its sustainability reporting.
In some jurisdictions, corporate governance codes require the highest governance body to inquire and, if it is
satisfied, to confirm the adequacy of an organization’s internal controls in the annual report. This confirmation may
only relate to the adequacy of the internal controls for financial reporting. It may not provide information about whether
the same internal controls are also adequate to assess the credibility of the organization’s sustainability reporting. If
the organization relies on internal controls set up for financial reporting, it should assess the relevance of these
controls for its sustainability reporting. In cases where these controls are inadequate, the organization should identify
and use additional internal controls to assess the credibility of its sustainability reporting.
External assurance
In addition to internal controls, the organization should seek external assurance for its sustainability reporting.