Disclosure 306-5 Waste directed to disposal 15

Glossary 17
Bibliography 22
Appendix 23
Process flow examples (clause 1.2) 23
Template examples for presenting information for Disclosures 306-3, 306-4, and
306-5
4 GRI 306: Waste 2020
Introduction
GRI 306: Waste 2020 contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their waste-related impacts,
and how they manage these impacts. The disclosures enable an organization to provide information on how it
prevents waste generation and how it manages waste that cannot be prevented, in its own activities and upstream
and downstream in its value chain.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains two disclosures, which provide information about how the organization manages its waste-
related impacts.
• Section 2 contains three disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s waste-related impacts.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing
this Standard.
• The Appendix includes examples of process flows and examples of templates for presenting information for
Disclosures 306-3, 306-4, and 306-5.
The rest of the Introduction section provides a background on the topic, an overview of the system of GRI Standards
and further information on using this Standard.
Background on the topic
This Standard addresses the topic of waste.
Waste can be generated in the organization’s own activities, for example, during the production of its products and
delivery of services. It can also be generated by entities upstream and downstream in the organization’s value chain,
for example, when suppliers process materials that are later used or procured by the organization, or when
consumers use the services or discard the products that the organization sells to them.
Waste can have significant negative impacts on the environment and human health when inadequately managed.
These impacts often extend beyond locations where waste is generated and discarded. The resources and materials
contained in waste that is incinerated or landfilled are lost to future use, which accelerates their depletion.
The United Nations recognizes the role of responsible consumption and production in achieving the Sustainable
Development Goals1. The targets under Goal 12, in particular, call on organizations to implement environmentally
sound waste management and prevent and reduce waste through reuse and recycling.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
1 United Nations (UN) Resolution, Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 2015. (See in particular Goal 12: ‘Ensure
sustainable consumption and production patterns’.)
5 GRI 306: Waste 2020
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
This Standard can be used by any organization – regardless of size, type, sector, geographic location, or reporting
experience – to report information about its waste-related impacts. This Standard can also be used by organizations
that manage waste generated by other organizations, such as public and private waste management organizations.
In addition to this Standard, disclosures that relate to this topic can be found in GRI 301: Materials 2016.
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report the following disclosures if it has
determined waste to be a material topic:
• Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this Standard);
• Any disclosures from this Topic Standard that are relevant to the organization’s waste-related impacts (Disclosure
306-1 through Disclosure 306-5).
See Requirements 4 and 5 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
Reasons for omission are permitted for these disclosures.
If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure (e.g., because the required
information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), the organization is required to specify the disclosure or the
requirement it cannot comply with, and provide a reason for omission together with an explanation in the GRI content
index. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be the
case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
6 GRI 306: Waste 2020
item does not exist.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
Requirements, guidance and defined terms
The following apply throughout this Standard:
Requirements are presented in bold font and indicated by the word 'shall'. An organization must comply with
requirements to report in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Requirements may be accompanied by guidance.
Guidance includes background information, explanations, and examples to help the organization better understand
the requirements. The organization is not required to comply with guidance.
The Standards may also include recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is
encouraged but not required.
The word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation, and the word ‘can’ indicates a possibility or option.
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
7 GRI 306: Waste 2020