Disclosure 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Actions, including circularity measures, taken to prevent waste generation in the
organization’s own activities and upstream and downstream in its value chain, and to
manage significant impacts from waste generated.
b. If the waste generated by the organization in its own activities is managed by a third
party, a description of the processes used to determine whether the third party
manages the waste in line with contractual or legislative obligations.
c. The processes used to collect and monitor waste-related data.
Background
GUIDANCE
An organization can cause waste-related impacts through its own activities. For example, when
its operations generate waste outputs. It can also contribute to waste-related impacts through
activities carried out in its value chain upstream or downstream. For example, through criteria in
its procurement policies that lead to waste generation upstream, or through management
decisions that limit the life of its products and therefore contribute to waste generation
downstream.
Even when the organization has not contributed to waste-related impacts upstream or
downstream in its value chain, its operations, products, or services could be directly linked to
waste-related impacts by its business relationships with the entities in its value chain. For
example, when third parties hired by the organization carry out inadequate recovery or disposal
operations.
The way an organization is involved with negative impacts is important for determining the
organization’s response to an impact.
Guidance for Disclosure 306-2-a
Actions, including circularity measures, to prevent waste generation and to manage significant
impacts from waste generated can include:
• Input material choices and product design:
- Improving materials selection and product design through consideration for longevity and
durability, repairability, modularity and disassembly, and recyclability.
- Reducing the use of raw and finite materials by procuring secondary materials (e.g.,
used or recycled input materials) or renewable materials.
- Substituting inputs that have hazardous characteristics with inputs that are non-
hazardous.
• Collaboration in the value chain and business model innovation:
- Setting policies for procurement from suppliers that have sound waste prevention and
waste management criteria.
- Engaging in or setting up industrial symbiosis as a result of which the organization’s
waste or other outputs (e.g., by-products from production) become inputs for another
organization.
- Participating in a collective or individual extended producer responsibility scheme or
applying product stewardship, which extends the producer’s responsibility for a product
or service to its end of life.
- Transitioning to and applying new business models, such as product service systems
that use services instead of products to meet consumer demand.
- Engaging in or setting up product take-back schemes and reverse logistics processes to
divert products and materials from disposal.
• End-of-life interventions:
- Establishing and improving facilities for waste management, including facilities for the
collection and sorting of waste.
- Recovering products, components, and materials from waste through preparation for
reuse and recycling.
- Engaging with consumers to raise awareness about sustainable consumption practices,
such as reduced purchasing of products, product sharing, exchange, reuse, and
11 GRI 306: Waste 2020
recycling.
See references [9] and [11] in the Bibliography.
Guidance for Disclosure 306-2-b
This disclosure can provide insight into the level of control the organization assumes for waste
management outsourced to a third party. In the context of this Standard, a third party includes a
public or private waste management organization, or any other entity or group of individuals
formally or informally involved in handling the reporting organization’s waste. Waste
management by third parties can include the collection, transportation, recovery, and disposal of
waste, as well as the supervision of such operations and the aftercare of disposal sites. The
organization may specify agreements in a contract for the third party to follow when managing its
waste, or rely on existing legislative obligations, such as local environmental laws and
regulations, to ensure that the third party manages the waste adequately.
Guidance for Disclosure 306-2-c
The processes that the organization has in place for collecting and monitoring waste-related
data can reflect its commitment to managing waste-related impacts. Such processes can
include online data entry, maintaining a centralized database, real-time weighbridge
measurement, and annual external data validation.
The organization can specify whether the data collection and monitoring processes extend
beyond waste generated in its own activities to include waste generated upstream and
downstream in its value chain.
12 GRI 306: Waste 2020