Disclosure 303-3 Water withdrawal

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total water withdrawal from all areas in megaliters, and a breakdown of this total by the
following sources, if applicable:
i. Surface water;
ii. Groundwater;
iii. Seawater;
iv. Produced water;
v. Third-party water.
b. Total water withdrawal from all areas with water stress in megaliters, and a breakdown
of this total by the following sources, if applicable:
i. Surface water;
ii. Groundwater;
iii. Seawater;
iv. Produced water;
v. Third-party water, and a breakdown of this total by the withdrawal sources listed in
i-iv.
c. A breakdown of total water withdrawal from each of the sources listed in Disclosures
303-3-a and 303-3-b in megaliters by the following categories:
i. Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids);
ii. Other water (>1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids).
d. Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled,
such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
Compilation requirements
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 303-3, the reporting
organization shall use publicly available and credible tools and methodologies for
assessing water stress in an area.
2.2 The reporting organization should report the following additional information:
RECOMMENDATIONS
2.2.1 A breakdown of total water withdrawal in megaliters by withdrawal source
categories listed in Disclosure 303-3, at each facility in areas with water stress;
2.2.2 Total water withdrawal in megaliters by suppliers with significant water-related
impacts in areas with water stress.
Background
GUIDANCE
The volume of water withdrawal from areas with water stress can indicate an organization’s
impacts in sensitive locations.
To learn more about locations where water-related impacts might be significant, and where
actions to address them are most needed, the reporting organization can also report the
information requested in Disclosure 303-3 for each facility in areas with water stress. This can
give stakeholders more confidence in the organization’s water stewardship efforts and
practices.
Guidance for Disclosure 303-3
For an example of how to present information on requirements in Disclosure 303-3, see Table
1.
Surface water includes collected or harvested rainwater. Third-party water includes water
supplied by municipal water networks or other organizations.
12 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
Guidance for Disclosure 303-3-b
Water stress refers to the ability, or lack thereof, to meet the human and ecological demand for
water. Water stress can refer to the availability, quality, or accessibility of water.
Publicly available and credible tools for assessing areas with water stress include the World
Resources Institute ‘Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas,' and the WWF 'Water Risk Filter'.
Based on these tools, water stress in an area may be assessed using either of the following
indicators and their thresholds:
• The ratio of total annual water withdrawal to total available annual renewable water supply
(i.e., baseline water stress) is high (40-80%) or extremely high (>80%)3;
• The ratio of water consumption-to-availability (i.e., water depletion) is moderate (dry-year
depletion, where for at least 10% of the time, the monthly depletion ratio is >75%), high
(seasonal depletion, where for one month of the year on average, the depletion ratio is
>75%), or very high (ongoing depletion, where the depletion ratio on average is >75%)4.
The organization may use these indicators even though they account only for quantity and not the
quality or accessibility of water as per the inclusive approach to the definition of water stress.
The organization can complement the results from these tools with their own assessments, to
provide more granular local-level data. Water stress in an area may be measured at catchment
level at a minimum.
Guidance for Disclosure 303-3-b-v
If water is supplied by a third party, the organization is required to request information about its
withdrawal sources, listed in Disclosures 303-3-b-i to 303-3-b-iv, from the third-party water
supplier. The organization can report any additional information about third-party water, such as
who the third-party water suppliers are and the volume of water supplied by them.
Guidance for Disclosure 303-3-c
The organization is required to provide a breakdown of the water withdrawn from each of the
sources listed in Disclosures 303-3-a and 303-3-b (surface water, groundwater, seawater,
produced water, third-party water) by the categories freshwater and other water. The organization
is only required to provide this breakdown for the sources it has withdrawn water from. If all
water withdrawn from a source belongs only to one category (i.e., to freshwater or to other
water), the organization can report the volume for the remaining category as zero. For example, if
all the withdrawn seawater belongs to the other water category, the organization can report the
volume of freshwater under this source as zero.
Other water constitutes any water that has a concentration of total dissolved solids higher than
1,000 mg/L. Other water is therefore all water that does not fall into the freshwater category.
The organization is, at a minimum, required to report a figure for other water withdrawal for each
of the sources listed in Disclosures 303-3-a and 303-3-b.
The organization can additionally report any further breakdowns for other water withdrawal
based on its water management and reporting practices, as long as it explains the approach
used to define water quality using Disclosure 303-3-d. The organization can report additional
information on how water quality has been determined, including consideration of the potential
value of water to its users, as well as any absolute physical and/or chemical criteria used.
Guidance for clause 2.2.1
To compile this information, the organization can use the following approach: (a) determine
which facilities are located in areas with water stress, (b) for each of these facilities, report a
breakdown of the total water withdrawal by surface water, groundwater, seawater, produced
water, and third-party water. For an example of how to present this information, see Table 2.
Guidance for clause 2.2.2
To compile this information, the organization can use the following approach: (a) determine
which suppliers are located in areas with water stress, (b) determine which of these suppliers
cause significant water-related impacts, (c) add up the total water withdrawal of each of these
suppliers, (d) report the sum. For an example of how to present this information, see Table 3.
3 Indicator used in the World Resources Institute, Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, www.wri.org/our-work/project/aqueduct/, accessed on 1 June 2018.
4 Indicator used in WWF, Water Risk Filter, waterriskfilter.panda.org, accessed on 1 June 2018.
13 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018