Disclosure 303-5 Water consumption 16

Glossary 22
Bibliography 28
4 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
Introduction
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their water-
related impacts, and how they manage these impacts.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains two disclosures, which provide information about how the organization manages its water-
related impacts.
• Section 2 contains three disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s water-related impacts.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing
this Standard.
The rest of the Introduction section provides a background on the topic, an overview of the system of GRI Standards
and further information on using this Standard.
Background on the topic
This Standard addresses the topic of water and effluents.
Access to fresh water is essential for human life and wellbeing, and is recognized by the United Nations (UN) as a
human right. The Sustainable Development Goals, adopted by the UN as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development, include key targets related to sustainable water management under Goal 6: ‘Ensure availability and
sustainable management of water and sanitation for all’. These targets aim, for example, to achieve universal access
to safe and affordable drinking water, improve water quality, and address water scarcity.
The amount of water withdrawn and consumed by an organization and the quality of its discharges, can impact the
functioning of the ecosystem in numerous ways. Direct impacts on a catchment can have wider impacts on the quality
of life in an area, including social and economic consequences for local communities and indigenous peoples.
Since water is a shared resource, and water-related impacts are localized, organizations are increasingly being
encouraged to:
• prioritize action in areas with water stress;
• understand and respond to local contexts, including local social and environmental impacts;
• aim to benefit and respect the needs and priorities of all water users in an area;
• align their approaches and collective actions with other water users and with effective public policy.
Through a comprehensive understanding of its water use, an organization can assess the impacts it has on water
resources that benefit the ecosystem, other water users, and the organization itself. An organization, particularly a
water-intensive one, can use this information for effective water management.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
5 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
This Standard can be used by any organization – regardless of size, type, sector, geographic location, or reporting
experience – to report information about its water-related impacts.
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report the following disclosures if it has
determined water and effluents to be a material topic:
• Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this Standard);
• Any disclosures from this Topic Standard that are relevant to the organization’s water-related impacts (Disclosure
303-1 through Disclosure 303-5).
See Requirements 4 and 5 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
Reasons for omission are permitted for these disclosures.
If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure (e.g., because the required
information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), the organization is required to specify the disclosure or the
requirement it cannot comply with, and provide a reason for omission together with an explanation in the GRI content
index. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be the
6 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
item does not exist.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
Further guidance for reporting the disclosures in this Standard
Due to the strong relationship between water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge, the reporting organization is