Disclosure 2-12 in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 requires information on the role of the

highest governance body in overseeing the organization’s due diligence and other processes to
identify its impacts on the economy, environment, and people.
Guidance to 3-1-a-ii
The organization should describe how it has assessed the significance of the impacts,
including any assumptions and subjective judgments it has made.
The significance of an actual negative impact is determined by the severity of the impact (scale,
scope, and irremediable character), while the significance of a potential negative impact is
determined by the severity and likelihood of the impact. In the case of potential negative human
17 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
rights impacts, the severity of the impact takes precedence over its likelihood.
The significance of an actual positive impact is determined by the scale and scope of the
impact, while the significance of a potential positive impact is determined by its scale and scope
as well as its likelihood.
See section 1 in this Standard for more guidance on assessing the significance of impacts.
The organization should explain if it has used a different approach to prioritize its impacts, for
example, if it has prioritized potential negative environmental impacts based on severity only.
The organization should also describe how it has defined the threshold to determine which
topics are material for reporting, and whether it has tested its selection of material topics with
potential information users and experts. The organization is required to report whether the
highest governance body is responsible for reviewing and approving the reported information,
including the organization’s material topics, under Disclosure 2-14 in GRI 2. The organization
should explain any changes to its initial selection of material topics following internal approval
and testing with potential information users and experts.
For transparency, the organization can provide a visual representation of the prioritization that
shows the initial list of topics it has identified and the threshold it has set for reporting.
Guidance to 3-1-b
Requirement 3-1-b enables the organization to explain how engagement with stakeholders and
experts informs the ongoing identification and assessment of its impacts.
The organization can report whether and how it has prioritized stakeholders for engagement and
the methods used to engage with them. It can also report any conflicting interests that have
arisen among different stakeholders and how the organization has resolved these conflicting
interests.
18 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021