Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics in this Standard.

1 International Organization for Standardization (ISO), ISO 31000:2018 Risk management – Guidelines, 2018.
2 Ibidem.
14 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
While some topics can cover both negative and positive impacts, it may not always be possible to compare the two.
Additionally, negative impacts cannot be offset by positive impacts. The organization should therefore prioritize
negative impacts separately from positive impacts.
Even if the organization has not prioritized an actual or potential negative impact for reporting, it may still be
responsible for addressing the impact in line with applicable laws, regulations, or authoritative intergovernmental
instruments. See section 2.3 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information.
Box 4. Grouping impacts into topics
Grouping impacts into topics, like ‘water and effluents’, helps the organization report in a cohesive way about
multiple impacts related to the same topic.
The organization can group impacts into topics according to general categories that relate to a business
activity, stakeholder category, type of business relationship, or an economic or environmental resource. For
example, an organization’s activities result in water pollution, which causes negative impacts on both
ecosystems and local communities’ access to safe drinking water. The organization can group these impacts
into the topic of ‘water and effluents’ as both impacts relate to its use of water.
The organization can refer to the topics in the GRI Topic Standards and the GRI Sector Standards. These
topics provide a useful reference for understanding the range of impacts that can be covered in each topic. For
impacts or topics that the GRI Standards do not cover, the organization can refer to other sources, such as
authoritative intergovernmental instruments or industry standards.
Testing the material topics
The organization should test its selection of material topics against the topics in the applicable GRI Sector Standards.
This helps the organization ensure that it has not overlooked any topics that are likely to be material for its sectors.
The organization should also test its selection of material topics with potential information users and experts who
understand the organization or its sectors and have insight into one or more of the material topics. This can help the
organization validate the threshold it has set to determine which topics are material to report. Examples of experts the
organization can consult are academics, consultants, investors, lawyers, national institutions, and non-governmental
organizations.
The organization should seek external assurance to assess the quality and credibility of its process of determining
material topics. See section 5.2 in GRI 1 for more information on seeking external assurance.
This testing process results in a list of the organization’s material topics.
Approval of the material topics
The organization’s highest governance body should review and approve the list of material topics. If such a body does
not exist, the list should be approved by a senior executive or group of senior executives in the organization.
Determining what to report for each material topic
Once the organization has determined its material topics, it needs to determine what to report for each material topic.
See Requirement 4 and Requirement 5 in GRI 1 for information about how to report on material topics.
15 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
Box 5. Using GRI Sector Standards to determine material topics
The GRI Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The topics
have been identified on the basis of the sectors’ most significant impacts, using multi-stakeholder expertise,
authoritative intergovernmental instruments, and other relevant evidence.
The organization is required to use the applicable Sector Standards when determining its material topics (see
Requirement 3-b in GRI 1: Foundation 2021). Using the Sector Standards is not a substitute for the process of
determining material topics, but an aid. The organization still needs to consider its own specific circumstances
when determining its material topics.
The organization is required to review each topic described in the applicable Sector Standards and determine
whether it is a material topic for the organization.
There can be cases where a topic included in the applicable Sector Standards is not material for the
organization. This may be because the organization assesses the specific impacts the topic covers to be
absent. It may also be because, compared to other impacts of the organization, the ones that the topic covers
are not among the most significant.
For example, an organization in the oil and gas sector is required to use GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
when determining its material topics. One of the topics included in this Sector Standard is land and resource
rights. Oil and gas projects often require land for operations, access routes, and distribution. This can lead to
impacts such as involuntary resettlement of local communities, which can involve their physical displacement
and economic displacement through lost access to resources. However, if the organization’s oil and gas
projects do not result in these impacts and will not result in these impacts in the future, the organization may
determine that the topic of land and resource rights is not a material topic for the organization. In such a case,
the reporting organization is required to explain why it has determined that this topic, which is likely to be
material for organizations in the oil and gas sector, is not a material topic for the organization.
If any of the topics that are included in the applicable Sector Standards have been determined by the
organization as not material, the organization is required to list them in the GRI content index and explain why
they are not material (see Requirement 3-b-ii in GRI 1). This explanation helps information users understand
why the organization has determined that topics that are likely to be material for the organization’s sectors are
not material in its specific circumstances.
A brief explanation in the GRI content index of why the topic is not material is sufficient to comply with
Requirement 3-b-ii in GRI 1. In the previous example, the organization could explain that land and resource
rights is not a material topic because its existing oil and gas projects are located in uninhabited areas, and
there are no plans to start projects in new areas.
16 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
2. Disclosures on material topics
The disclosures in this section provide information about the organization’s material topics, how the organization has
determined these topics, and how it manages each material topic. Material topics are topics that represent the
organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people, including impacts on their human
rights. Section 1 of this Standard provides guidance on how to determine material topics and helps in understanding
and reporting the disclosures in this section.