Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics

For each material topic reported under Disclosure 3-2, the organization shall:
REQUIREMENTS
a. describe the actual and potential, negative and positive impacts on the economy,
environment, and people, including impacts on their human rights;
b. report whether the organization is involved with the negative impacts through its
activities or as a result of its business relationships, and describe the activities or
business relationships;
c. describe its policies or commitments regarding the material topic;
d. describe actions taken to manage the topic and related impacts, including:
i. actions to prevent or mitigate potential negative impacts;
ii. actions to address actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for or
cooperate in their remediation;
iii. actions to manage actual and potential positive impacts;
e. report the following information about tracking the effectiveness of the actions taken:
i. processes used to track the effectiveness of the actions;
ii. goals, targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress;
iii. the effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets;
iv. lessons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s
operational policies and procedures;
f. describe how engagement with stakeholders has informed the actions taken (3-3-d)
and how it has informed whether the actions have been effective (3-3-e).
This disclosure requires the organization to explain how it manages each of its material topics.
GUIDANCE
This means that the organization is required to report this disclosure for each of its material
topics. The requirements in this disclosure apply to every material topic.
In addition to this disclosure, there may also be disclosures and guidance in the Topic
Standards and Sector Standards that address reporting information about how the organization
manages a topic. For example, some Topic Standards contain disclosures about specific
actions or methods to manage a topic. The organization does not need to repeat this
information under Disclosure 3-3 if it is already reported under another disclosure. The
organization can report the information once and provide a reference to this information to fulfill
the corresponding requirements in Disclosure 3-3.
If the organization’s approach to managing a material topic, such as its policies or actions
taken, applies to other material topics, the organization does not need to repeat this information
for each topic. The organization can report this information once, with a clear explanation of all
the topics it covers.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in this
disclosure because the item (e.g., policy, action) does not exist, it can comply with the
requirement by reporting this to be the case. The organization can explain the reasons for not
having this item or describe any plans to develop it. The disclosure does not require the
organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the item does not
exist.
If the organization does not manage a material topic, it can comply with the requirements under
this disclosure by explaining the reasons for not managing the topic or describing any plans to
manage it.
Guidance to 3-3-a
Requirement 3-3-a enables the organization to indicate if a topic is material because of negative
impacts, positive impacts, or both. It does not require a list of all the impacts identified or a
detailed description of the impacts. Instead, the organization can provide a high-level overview of
the impacts it has identified.
20 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
Describing negative impacts
The organization can describe:
• whether the negative impacts are actual or potential;
• the time frame of the negative impacts (i.e., whether the negative effects are short-term or
long-term and when they are likely to arise);
• whether the negative impacts are systemic (e.g., child labor or forced labor in countries
where the organization operates or sources materials from) or are related to individual
incidents (e.g., an oil spill);
• the economic resources, environmental resources, and stakeholders (without identifying
specific individuals) that are negatively affected or could be negatively affected, including their
geographic location.
Reporting information about negative impacts can help the organization demonstrate that it
recognizes these impacts and has taken action or intends to address them. The organization
may have concerns about reporting information about negative impacts even if these impacts
are publicly known. In cases where negative impacts are publicly known, failure to acknowledge
these impacts and to explain how they are being addressed could have consequences for the
organization financially, operationally, or reputationally. If the organization is unable to disclose
specific information (e.g., because of stakeholders’ right to privacy), it can provide the
information in aggregated or anonymized form, or it can make a reference to the impacts
commonly associated with its sectors, its products, or geographic locations. [11]
Describing positive impacts
The organization can describe:
• whether the positive impacts are actual or potential;
• the time frame of the positive impacts (i.e., whether the positive effects are short-term or
long-term and when they are likely to arise);
• the activities that result in the positive impacts (e.g., products, services, investments,
procurement practices);
• the economic resources, environmental resources, and stakeholders (without identifying
specific individuals) that are positively affected or could be positively affected, including their
geographic location.
Guidance to 3-3-b
The way the organization is involved with negative impacts determines how it should address
the impacts and whether it has a responsibility to provide for or cooperate in their remediation
(see section 2.3 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021). Requirement 3-3-b provides contextual information
that aids an understanding of the actions taken by the organization to manage its negative
impacts. The actions taken are reported under 3-3-d-i and 3-3-d-ii.
Under requirement 3-3-b, the organization is required to report whether it is involved with the
negative impacts through its activities or as a result of its business relationships. Where
possible, the organization should also report:
• whether it is or could be causing or contributing to the negative impacts through its activities;
or
• whether the impacts are or could be directly linked to its operations, products, or services by
its business relationships even if it has not contributed to them.
See Box 3 in this Standard for more information on causing, contributing, or being directly linked
to negative impacts.
Under requirement 3-3-b, the organization is also required to describe the activities or business
relationships. This enables the organization to indicate if the impacts related to a material topic
are widespread in the organization’s activities or business relationships, or if the impacts
concern specific activities or business relationships.
If the impacts concern specific activities, the organization should describe the types of activities
(e.g., manufacturing, retail) and their geographic location. If the impacts concern specific
business relationships, the organization should describe the types of business relationships
(e.g., suppliers of raw materials, franchisees), their position in the value chain, and their
geographic location.
21 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
For example, if the organization has identified that its activities at specific sites could cause
water pollution, it should describe the types of activities carried out at these sites and the
geographic location of these sites. Or, if the organization has identified that it is directly linked to
child labor by the business relationships in its supply chain, it should specify the types of
suppliers using child labor (e.g., sub-contractors doing embroidery work for the organization’s
products) and the geographic location of these suppliers.
The organization can provide additional contextual information for understanding the extent of its
impacts. Adding to the previous examples, the organization can report how many of its sites
could cause water pollution (e.g., 60% of sites, five out of 12 sites) or the proportion of
production these sites represent, or it can report the estimated number of sub-contractors using
child labor that do embroidery work for the organization.
Guidance to 3-3-c
Requirement 3-3-c entails describing the policies or commitments the organization has
developed specifically for the topic, in addition to the policy commitments reported under