Disclosure 3-1 Process to determine material topics

The organization shall:
REQUIREMENTS
a. describe the process it has followed to determine its material topics, including:
i. how it has identified actual and potential, negative and positive impacts on the
economy, environment, and people, including impacts on their human rights,
across its activities and business relationships;
ii. how it has prioritized the impacts for reporting based on their significance;
b. specify the stakeholders and experts whose views have informed the process of
determining its material topics.
This disclosure requires information on how the organization has determined its material
GUIDANCE
topics. The list of material topics is reported under Disclosure 3-2 in this Standard.
The organization is required to use the applicable GRI Sector Standards when determining its
material topics. If any of the topics that are included in the applicable Sector Standards have
been determined by the organization as not material, the organization is required to list them in
the GRI content index and explain why they are not material. See Requirement 5 and
Requirement 7 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and Box 5 in this Standard for more information.
In the absence of applicable Sector Standards, the organization should explain how it has
considered impacts commonly associated with its sectors, and whether any of these impacts
have been determined as not material, together with an explanation for why this is the case. The
organization should also explain how it has considered impacts commonly associated with its
products and geographic locations. See section 1 in this Standard and the Sector Standards for
guidance on impacts commonly associated with sectors, products, and geographic locations.
Guidance to 3-1-a-i
The organization should describe the methods used to identify its impacts, for example,
economic, environmental, social, and human rights impact assessments, grievance
mechanisms, or using information from external sources, such as civil society organizations.
The organization should describe the sources and the evidence it has used to identify the
impacts.
The organization should also describe the scope it has defined when identifying the impacts, for
example, whether it has identified short-term as well as long-term impacts. The organization
should also describe any limitations or exclusions, for example, whether it has excluded
business relationships from certain parts of its value chain when identifying the impacts.