Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 19

Glossary 24
Bibliography 29
4 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
Introduction
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides step-by-step guidance for organizations on how to determine material topics. It
also explains how the Sector Standards are used in this process. Material topics are topics that represent an
organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people, including impacts on their human
rights.
GRI 3 also contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their process of determining material
topics, their list of material topics, and how they manage each of their material topics.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 provides step-by-step guidance on how to determine material topics.
• Section 2 contains three disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s process of determining
material topics, its list of material topics, and how it manages each topic.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing
this Standard, as well as resources that the organization can consult.
The rest of the Introduction section provides an overview of the system of GRI Standards and further information on
using this Standard.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
5 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to determine its material topics and report
all disclosures in this Standard. The organization is required to report Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics
for each material topic.
Reasons for omission are only permitted for Disclosure 3-3.
If the organization cannot comply with Disclosure 3-3 or with a requirement in Disclosure 3-3 (e.g., because the
required information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), then the organization is required to specify this in
the GRI content index, and provide a reason for omission with an explanation. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1:
Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be the
case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
item does not exist.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
Requirements, guidance and defined terms
The following apply throughout the GRI Standards:
Requirements are presented in bold font and indicated by the word 'shall'. An organization must comply with
requirements to report in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Requirements may be accompanied by guidance.
6 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
Guidance includes background information, explanations, and examples to help the organization better understand
the requirements. The organization is not required to comply with guidance.
The Standards may also include recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is
encouraged but not required.
The word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation, and the word ‘can’ indicates a possibility or option.
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
7 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
1. Guidance to determine material topics
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to determine its material topics. When
doing this, the organization is also required to use the applicable GRI Sector Standards (see Requirement 3 in GRI 1:
Foundation 2021 and Box 5 in this Standard).
This section describes the four steps that the organization should follow in determining its material topics (see Figure
2). Following the steps in this section helps the organization determine its material topics and report the disclosures
in section 2 of this Standard. The steps provide guidance and are not requirements on their own.
Figure 2. Process to determine material topics
Identify and assess impacts on an ongoing basis Determine material topics for reporting
Test the material
topics with experts
and information users
Material topics
1 2 3 4
Prioritize the
Understand the Identify actual Assess the
most significant
organization’s and potential significance of
impacts for
context impacts the impacts
reporting
Use the Sector Consider the Test the material
Standards to topics and topics against the
understand the impacts described topics in the
sectors’ context in the Sector Sector Standards
Standards
The first three steps in the process to determine material topics relate to the organization’s ongoing identification and
assessment of impacts. During these steps, the organization identifies and assesses its impacts regularly, as part of
its day-to-day activities, and while engaging with relevant stakeholders and experts. These ongoing steps allow the
organization to actively identify and manage its impacts as they evolve and as new ones arise. The first three steps
are conducted independently of the sustainability reporting process, but they inform the last step. In Step 4, the
organization prioritizes its most significant impacts for reporting and, in this way, determines its material topics.
In each reporting period, the organization should review its material topics from the previous reporting period to
account for changes in the impacts. Changes in impacts can result from changes in the organization’s activities and
business relationships. This review helps ensure the material topics represent the organization’s most significant
impacts in each new reporting period.
The organization should document its process of determining material topics. This includes documenting the
approach taken, decisions, assumptions, and subjective judgments made, sources analyzed, and evidence
gathered. Accurate records help the organization explain its chosen approach and report the disclosures in section 2
of this Standard. The records facilitate analysis and assurance. See the Verifiability principle in GRI 1 for more
information.
The approach for each step will vary according to the specific circumstances of the organization, such as its business
model; sectors; geographic, cultural, and legal operating context; ownership structure; and the nature of its impacts.
Given these specific circumstances, the steps should be systematic, documented, replicable, and used consistently
in each reporting period. The organization should document any changes in its approach together with the rationale
for those changes and their implications.
8 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
The organization’s highest governance body should oversee the process and review and approve the material topics.
If the organization does not have a highest governance body, a senior executive or group of senior executives should
oversee the process and review and approve the material topics.
Box 1. Input to financial and value creation reporting
The material topics and impacts that have been determined through this process inform financial and value
creation reporting. They provide crucial input for identifying financial risks and opportunities related to the
organization’s impacts, and for financial valuation. This in turn helps in making financial materiality judgments
about what to recognize in financial statements.
While most, if not all, of the impacts that have been identified through this process will eventually become
financially material, sustainability reporting is also highly relevant in its own right as a public interest activity
and is independent of the consideration of financial implications. It is therefore important for the organization to
report on all the material topics that it has determined using the GRI Standards. These material topics cannot
be deprioritized on the basis of not being considered financially material by the organization.
See Box 1 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on sustainability reporting and financial and value
creation reporting.
The following sections describe the four steps to determine material topics in more detail.
Step 1. Understand the organization’s context
In this step, the organization creates an initial high-level overview of its activities and business relationships, the
sustainability context in which these occur, and an overview of its stakeholders. this provides the organization with
critical information for identifying its actual and potential impacts.
The organization should consider the activities, business relationships, stakeholders, and sustainability context of all
the entities it controls or has an interest in (e.g., subsidiaries, joint ventures, affiliates), including minority interests.
Relevant departments and functions within the organization that can assist in this step include communications,
human resources, investor relations, legal and compliance departments or functions, marketing and sales,
procurement, and product development. The GRI Sector Standards describe the sectors’ context and they can also
assist in this step.
Activities
The organization should consider the following in relation to its activities:
• The organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, business model, and strategies.
• The types of activities it carries out (e.g., sales, marketing, manufacturing, distribution) and the geographic
locations of these activities.
• The types of products and services it offers and the markets it serves (i.e., the types of customers and
beneficiaries targeted, and the geographic locations where products and services are offered).
• The sectors in which the organization is active and their characteristics (e.g., whether they involve informal work,
whether they are labor or resource intensive).
• The number of employees, including whether they are full-time, part-time, non-guaranteed hours, permanent or
temporary, and their demographic characteristics (e.g., age, gender, geographic location).
• The number of workers who are not employees and whose work is controlled by the organization, including the
types of worker (e.g., agency workers, contractors, self-employed persons, volunteers), their contractual
relationship with the organization (i.e., whether the organization engages these workers directly or indirectly
through a third party), and the work they perform.
Business relationships
The organization’s business relationships include relationships with business partners, entities in its value chain
(including entities beyond the first tier), and any other entities directly linked to its operations, products, or services.
The organization should consider the following in relation to its business relationships:
• The types of business relationships it has (e.g., joint ventures, suppliers, franchisees).
• The types of activities undertaken by those with which it has business relationships (e.g., manufacturing the
9 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
organization’s products, providing security services to the organization).
• The nature of the business relationships (e.g., whether they are based on a long-term or short-term contract,
whether they are based on a specific project or event).
• The geographic locations where the activities of the business relationships take place.
Sustainability context
The organization should consider the following to understand the sustainability context of its activities and business
relationships:
• Economic, environmental, human rights, and other societal challenges at local, regional, and global levels related
to the organization’s sectors and the geographic location of its activities and business relationships (e.g., climate
change, lack of law enforcement, poverty, political conflict, water stress).
• The organization’s responsibility regarding the authoritative intergovernmental instruments with which it is
expected to comply.
Examples include the International Labour Organization (ILO) Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning
Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy [1]; the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises [3]; the United Nations (UN) Framework Convention on Climate
Change (FCCC) Paris Agreement [4]; the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights [5]; and the UN
International Bill of Human Rights [6].
• The organization’s responsibility regarding the laws and regulations with which it is expected to comply.
See the Sustainability context principle in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information.
Stakeholders
The organization should identify who its stakeholders are across its activities and business relationships and engage
with them to help identify its impacts.
The organization should draw a full list of individuals and groups whose interests are affected or could be affected by
the organization’s activities. Common categories of stakeholders for organizations are business partners, civil society
organizations, consumers, customers, employees and other workers, governments, local communities, non-
governmental organizations, shareholders and other investors, suppliers, trade unions, and vulnerable groups. The
organization can further distinguish between individuals and groups whose human rights are affected or could be
affected, and individuals and groups with other interests.
When identifying its stakeholders, the organization should ensure it identifies any individuals or groups it does not
have a direct relationship with (e.g., workers in the supply chain or local communities that live at a distance from the
organization’s operations) and those who are unable to articulate their views (e.g., future generations) but whose
interests are affected or could be affected by the organization’s activities.
Different lists of stakeholders can be drawn per activity, project, product or service, or other classification that is
relevant for the organization.
See Box 2 in this Standard for information on engaging with stakeholders.
Step 2. Identify actual and potential impacts
In this step, the organization identifies its actual and potential impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, across the organization’s activities and business relationships. Actual
impacts are those that have already occurred, and potential impacts are those that could occur but have not yet
occurred. These impacts include negative and positive impacts, short-term and long-term impacts, intended and
unintended impacts, and reversible and irreversible impacts.
To identify its impacts, the organization can use information from diverse sources. It can use information from its own
or third-party assessments of impacts on the economy, environment, and people, including impacts on their human
rights. It can also use information from legal reviews, anti-corruption compliance management systems, financial
audits, occupational health and safety inspections, and shareholder filings. It can also use information from any other
relevant assessments of business relationships carried out by the organization or by industry or multi-stakeholder
initiatives.
Further information can be gathered through grievance mechanisms that the organization has established itself, or
that have been established by other organizations. The organization can also use information from broader enterprise
risk management systems, provided that these systems identify the organization’s impacts on the economy, the
10 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
environment, and people, in addition to identifying risks for the organization itself. It can also use information from
external sources, such as news organizations and civil society organizations.
In addition, the organization should seek to understand the concerns of its stakeholders (see Box 2 in this Standard)
and consult internal and external experts, such as civil society organizations or academics.
Box 2. Engaging with relevant stakeholders and experts
The organization should seek to understand the concerns of its stakeholders by consulting them directly in a
way that takes into account language and other potential barriers (e.g., cultural differences, gender and power
imbalances, divisions within the community). Identifying and removing potential barriers is necessary to
ensure that stakeholder engagement is effective.
Engagement with at-risk or vulnerable groups may necessitate specific approaches and call for special
attention. Such approaches include removing social barriers that limit the participation of women in public
forums and removing physical barriers that prevent remotely located communities from attending a meeting.
The organization should respect the human rights of all stakeholders and other individuals with whom it
engages (e.g., their rights to privacy, freedom of expression, and peaceful assembly and protest) and it should
protect them against reprisals (i.e., non-retaliation for raising complaints or concerns).
Broad engagement with stakeholders may not be possible in cases that involve many stakeholders or in
cases that involve impacts resulting in collective harm. For example, broad engagement may not be possible
in the case of corruption, which collectively harms the population of the jurisdiction in which it takes place or
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which contribute to collective transboundary harm.
In such cases, the organization may engage with credible stakeholder representatives or proxy organizations
(e.g., non-governmental organizations, trade unions). This is also relevant in cases where engaging with
individuals could undermine certain rights or collective interests. For example, when considering a decision to
restructure or shut down a factory, it may be important for an organization to engage with trade unions to
mitigate the employment impacts of the decision. In such a case, engaging with individual workers could
undermine the right of workers to form or join trade unions and to bargain collectively.
The degree of impact on stakeholders may inform the degree of engagement. The organization should
prioritize the most severely affected or potentially affected stakeholders for engagement.
Where direct consultation is not possible, the organization should consider reasonable alternatives, such as
consulting credible independent experts, such as national human rights institutions, human rights and
environmental defenders, trade unions, and other members of civil society.
See references [2] and [5] in the Bibliography.
In this step, the organization needs to consider the impacts described in the applicable GRI Sector Standards and
determine whether these impacts apply to it.
Impacts may change over time as the organization’s activities, business relationships, and context evolve. New
activities, new business relationships, and major changes in operations or the operating context (e.g., new market
entry, product launch, policy change, wider changes to the organization) could lead to changes in the organization’s
impacts. For this reason, the organization should assess its context and identify its impacts on an ongoing basis.
In cases where the organization has limited resources available for identifying its impacts, it should first identify its
negative impacts, before identifying positive impacts, to ensure it complies with applicable laws, regulations, and
authoritative intergovernmental instruments.
Identifying negative impacts
Identifying actual and potential negative impacts with which the organization is involved or could be involved is the first
step of due diligence. The organization should consider actual and potential impacts that it causes or contributes to
through its activities, as well as actual and potential impacts that are directly linked to its operations, products, or
services by its business relationships(see Box 3 in this Standard).
In some cases, the organization might be unable to identify actual and potential negative impacts across all its
activities and business relationships. This could be, for example, because the organization has diverse or multiple
11 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
global operations or because its value chain comprises many entities. In such cases, the organization may carry out
an initial assessment or scoping exercise to identify general areas across its activities and business relationships
(e.g., product lines, suppliers located in specific geographic locations) where negative impacts are most likely to be
present and significant. Once the organization has conducted the initial assessment or scoping exercise, it can
identify and assess actual and potential negative impacts for these general areas.
As part of the initial assessment or scoping exercise, the organization should consider impacts commonly
associated with its sectors, its products, geographic locations, or with specific organizations (i.e., impacts associated
with a specific entity of the organization, or with an entity it has a business relationship with, such as a poor history of
conduct in relation to respecting human rights). It should also consider impacts it has been involved with or knows it
is likely to be involved with. In addition to the GRI Sector Standards, the organization can use the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct [2]
and the OECD sectoral guidance on due diligence [13] for information on impacts commonly associated with sectors,
products, geographic locations, and specific organizations. It can also use reports from governments, environmental
agencies, international organizations, civil society organizations, workers’ representatives and trade unions, national
human rights institutions, media, or other experts.
See references [2], [3], [5] and [13] in the Bibliography.
Box 3. Causing, contributing, or being directly linked to negative impacts
An organization ‘causes’ a negative impact if its activities on their own result in the impact, for example, if the
organization pays a bribe to a foreign public official, or if it withdraws water from a water-stressed aquifer
without replenishing the water level.
An organization ‘contributes to’ a negative impact if its activities lead, facilitate, or incentivize another entity to
cause the impact. The organization can also contribute to a negative impact if its activities in combination with
the activities of other entities cause the impact. For example, if the organization sets a short lead time for a
supplier to deliver a product, despite knowing from experience that this production time is not feasible, this
could result in excessive overtime for the supplier’s workers. In such a case, the organization may contribute to
negative impacts on the health and safety of these workers.
An organization can cause or contribute to a negative impact through its actions as well as by failure to take
action (e.g., failure to prevent or mitigate a potential negative impact).
Even if an organization does not cause or contribute to a negative impact, its operations, products, or services
may be ‘directly linked to’ a negative impact by its business relationships. For example, if the organization
uses cobalt in its products that is mined using child labor, the negative impact (i.e., child labor) is directly
linked to the organization’s products through the tiers of business relationships in its supply chain (i.e.,
through the smelter and minerals trader, to the mining enterprise that uses child labor), even though the
organization has not caused or contributed to the negative impact itself. ‘Direct linkage’ is not defined by the
link between the organization and the other entity, and is therefore not limited to direct contractual
relationships, such as ‘direct sourcing’.
The way the organization is involved with negative impacts determines how it should address the impacts and
whether it has a responsibility to provide for or cooperate in their remediation (see section 2.3 in GRI 1:
Foundation 2021).
See references [2] and [5] in the Bibliography. For additional guidance and examples, see the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct
[2], pages 70-72, and the United Nations’ (UN) The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide [15], pages 15-18.
Identifying positive impacts
To identify its actual and potential positive impacts, the organization should assess the manner in which it contributes
or could contribute to sustainable development through its activities, for example, through its products, services,
investments, procurement practices, employment practices, or tax payments. This also includes assessing how the
organization can shape its purpose, business model, and strategies to deliver positive impacts that contribute to the
goal of sustainable development.
An example of a positive impact is an organization adopting measures that lower the cost of renewable energy for
12 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
customers, thereby allowing more customers to switch from using non-renewable energy to renewable energy, and
thus contributing to mitigating climate change. Another example is an organization choosing an area with high
unemployment to open a new facility so that it can hire and train unemployed members of the local community, and in
this way, contribute to job creation and community development.
The organization should consider any negative impacts that could result from activities that aim for a positive
contribution to sustainable development. Negative impacts cannot be offset by positive impacts. For example, a
renewable energy installation may reduce a region’s dependence on fossil fuels and bring energy to underserved
communities. However, if it displaces local indigenous communities from their lands or territories without their
consent, this negative impact should be addressed and remediated, and it cannot be compensated by the positive
impacts.
Step 3. Assess the significance of the impacts
The organization may identify many actual and potential impacts. In this step, the organization assesses the
significance of its identified impacts to prioritize them. Prioritization enables the organization to take action to address
the impacts and also to determine its material topics for reporting. Prioritizing impacts for action is relevant where it is
not feasible to address all impacts at once.
Assessing the significance of the impacts involves quantitative and qualitative analysis. How significant an impact is
will be specific to the organization and will be influenced by the sectors in which it operates, and its business
relationships, among other factors. In some instances, this may need a subjective decision. The organization should
consult with relevant stakeholders (see Box 2 in this Standard) and business relationships to assess the significance
of its impacts. The organization should also consult relevant internal or external experts.
Assessing the significance of negative impacts
The significance of an actual negative impact is determined by the severity of the impact. The significance of a
potential negative impact is determined by the severity and likelihood of the impact.
The combination of the severity and the likelihood of a negative impact can be referred to as ‘risk’. The assessment of
the significance of the impacts can be included within broader enterprise risk management systems, provided that
these systems assess the impacts the organization has on the economy, the environment, and people, in addition to
assessing risks for the organization itself.
Severity
The severity of an actual or potential negative impact is determined by the following characteristics:
• Scale: how grave the impact is.
• Scope: how widespread the impact is, for example, the number of individuals affected or the extent of
environmental damage.
• Irremediable character: how hard it is to counteract or make good the resulting harm.
The scale of a negative impact (i.e., how grave the impact is) can depend on whether the impact leads to non-
compliance with laws and regulations or with authoritative intergovernmental instruments with which the organization
is expected to comply. For example, if a negative impact leads to a violation of human rights or fundamental rights at
work or to non-compliance with the reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to be achieved under the United
Nations (UN) Framework Convention on Climate Change (FCCC) Paris Agreement [4], the scale of this impact can be
considered greater.
The scale of a negative impact can also depend on the context in which the impact takes place. For example, the
scale of the impact of an organization’s water withdrawal can depend on the area from which water is withdrawn. The
scale will be greater if water is withdrawn from an area affected by water stress, compared to an area with abundant
water resources to meet the demands of water users and ecosystems.
Any of the three characteristics (scale, scope, and irremediable character) can make an impact severe. But it is often
the case that these characteristics are interdependent: the greater the scale or the scope of an impact, the less
remediable it is.
The severity – and therefore the significance – of an impact are not absolute concepts. The severity of an impact
should be assessed in relation to the other impacts of the organization. For example, an organization should
compare the severity of the impacts of its GHG emissions against the severity of its other impacts. The organization
should not assess the significance of its GHG emissions in relation to global GHG emissions, as that comparison
13 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
could lead to the misleading conclusion that the organization’s emissions are not significant.
See references [2], [3], [4] and [5] in the Bibliography.
Likelihood
The likelihood of a potential negative impact refers to the chance of the impact happening. The likelihood of an impact
can be measured or determined qualitatively or quantitatively. It can be described using general terms (e.g., very likely,
likely) or mathematically using probability (e.g., 10 in 100, 10%) or frequency over a given time period (e.g., once every
three years).1
Human rights
In the case of potential negative human rights impacts, the severity of the impact takes precedence over its likelihood.
For example, an organization operating a nuclear power facility may prioritize the potential impact related to loss of life
in cases of natural disasters affecting the power facility, even though natural disasters are less likely to occur than
other incidents.
The severity of a negative human rights impact is not limited to physical harm. Highly severe impacts can occur in
relation to any human right. For example, interfering with, damaging, or destroying a sacred space without
consultation or agreement with the people for whom the space has spiritual importance can have a highly severe
impact on their cultural rights.
When prioritizing other types of impacts, such as potential negative environmental impacts, the organization may also
choose to prioritize highly severe negative impacts even though they may be less likely to occur.
Assessing the significance of positive impacts
The significance of an actual positive impact is determined by the scale and scope of the impact. The significance of a
potential positive impact is determined by the scale and scope as well as the likelihood of the impact.
Scale and scope
In the case of positive impacts, the scale of an impact refers to how beneficial the impact is or could be, and the
scope refers to how widespread the impact is or could be (e.g., the number of individuals or the extent of
environmental resources that are or could be positively affected).
Likelihood
The likelihood of a potential positive impact refers to the chance of the impact happening. The likelihood of an impact
can be measured or determined qualitatively or quantitatively. It can be described using general terms (e.g., very likely,
likely) or mathematically using probability (e.g., 10 in 100, 10%) or frequency over a given time period (e.g., once every
three years).2
Step 4. Prioritize the most significant impacts for reporting
In this step, to determine its material topics for reporting, the organization prioritizes its impacts based on their
significance.
Setting a threshold to determine which topics are material
The significance of an impact is assessed in relation to the other impacts the organization has identified. The
organization should arrange its impacts from most to least significant and define a cut-off point or threshold to
determine which of the impacts it will focus its reporting on. The organization should document this threshold. To
facilitate prioritization, the organization should group the impacts into topics (see Box 4 in this Standard).
For example, when setting a threshold, the organization first groups its impacts into a number of topics and ranks
them, based on their significance, from highest to lowest priority. The organization then needs to determine how many
of the topics it will report on, starting with those that have the highest priority. Where to set the threshold is up to the
organization. For transparency, the organization can provide a visual representation of the prioritization that shows the
initial list of topics it has identified and the threshold it has set for reporting.
The significance of an impact is the sole criterion to determine whether a topic is material for reporting. The
organization cannot use difficulty in reporting on a topic or the fact that it does not yet manage the topic as criteria to
determine whether or not to report on the topic. In cases where the organization does not manage a material topic, it
can report the reasons for not doing so or any plans to manage the topic to comply with the requirements in