Disclosure 2-12 and Disclosure 2-13 in GRI 2 require information on the role of the highest

governance body in overseeing the management of the organization’s impacts and on how it
delegates responsibility for this.
The organization should also report how it manages actual impacts identified in previous
reporting periods and which it continues to manage during the current reporting period.
Guidance to 3-3-d-i
The organization should report:
• examples of actions taken to prevent or mitigate potential negative impacts (e.g.,
adaptation/modification measures, facility upgrading, training, red-flag systems);
• approaches taken to prevent or mitigate systemic negative impacts;
• how the organization applies the precautionary principle, including:
- how the organization proactively informs the public about potential negative impacts of its
activities, products, and services, and how it deals with related questions and
complaints;
- the organization’s support or contribution to scientific research related to evaluating
potential negative impacts of its activities, products, and services;
- the organization’s participation in collaborative efforts to share knowledge and to prevent
negative impacts of its activities, products, and services;
• how the organization uses or increases its leverage to motivate its business relationships to
prevent or mitigate potential negative impacts. For example, whether the organization uses
22 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
or increases its leverage by enforcing contractual requirements, implements incentives such
as future orders, provides training and support, or actively collaborates with other actors to
motivate its business relationships to prevent or mitigate potential negative impacts;
• whether the organization has terminated a business relationship because it lacks the
leverage to prevent or mitigate potential negative impacts and, if so, whether it has assessed
if terminating the relationship could itself result in negative impacts.
See Guidance to 2-23-a-iii in GRI 2 for more information on ‘precautionary principle’.
Guidance to 3-3-d-ii
The organization should report:
• examples of actions taken to remediate actual negative impacts, including examples of
specific remedies or types of remedy provided;
• how grievance mechanisms or other remediation processes (reported under Disclosure 2-
25 in GRI 2) have made it possible for actual negative impacts to be remediated.
See Disclosure 2-25 in GRI 2 for more information on processes to remediate negative impacts.
Guidance to 3-3-e
Requirement 3-3-e enables the organization to report information about the effectiveness of its
actions to manage its impacts. Tracking the effectiveness of its actions is necessary for an
organization to learn if its policies and processes are being implemented optimally. It is also
necessary for knowing if it has responded effectively to its impacts and to drive continuous
improvement.
The organization should also report information about the effectiveness of its actions to manage
actual impacts from previous reporting periods. This applies in cases where the organization
has assessed the effectiveness of these actions or derived lessons during the current reporting
period.
Guidance to 3-3-e-i
Processes used to track the effectiveness of actions can include internal or external auditing or
verification, impact assessments, measurement systems, stakeholder feedback, grievance
mechanisms, external performance ratings, and benchmarking.
Guidance to 3-3-e-ii
When reporting on goals and targets, the organization should report:
• how the goals and targets are set;
• whether and how the goals and targets take into account the sustainability context in which
the impacts take place (e.g., sustainable development goals and conditions, the limits and
demands placed on environmental resources). See the Sustainability context principle in
GRI 1 for more information;
• whether the goals and targets are informed by expectations in authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and, where relevant, by scientific consensus;
• whether goals and targets are mandatory (based on legislation) or voluntary. If they are
mandatory, the organization can list the relevant legislation;
• the organization’s activities or business relationships to which the goals and targets apply;
• the baseline for the goals and targets;
• the timeline for achieving the goals and targets.
Targets can be qualitative (e.g., implementing a management system by a certain date) or
quantitative (e.g., reducing greenhouse gas [GHG] emissions by a certain percentage by a
certain date).
The indicators used to evaluate progress can also be qualitative or quantitative. Quantitative
indicators can bring precision and enable comparisons. Qualitative information is often needed
to put quantitative information into context, enable its interpretation, and determine which
comparisons and conclusions are likely to be most valid. The Topic Standards and Sector
Standards include qualitative and quantitative indicators.
Guidance to 3-3-e-iii
Requirement 3-3-e-iii enables the organization to show the extent to which the actions taken
have been effective. Information on the effectiveness of the actions can be obtained, for example,
23 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
from the outcomes of internal or external auditing or verification, data collected through
measurement systems, and stakeholder feedback. The organization should show that there is a
credible link between the specific action taken by the organization and the effective management
of impacts.
For example, to show the effectiveness of its actions to support its suppliers with improving their
working conditions, the organization can report survey feedback from the suppliers’ workers
showing that working conditions have improved. Additional information the organization can
provide includes data showing a decrease in the number of incidents identified through
independent audits.
Similarly, to demonstrate the effectiveness of its actions to improve the quality of its water
discharge, the organization can report data showing a decrease in the concentration of total
dissolved solids (mg/L) in the water discharge.
When reporting progress toward its goals and targets, the organization should report whether
progress is satisfactory or not. If a goal or target has not been achieved, the organization should
explain why.
Guidance to 3-3-e-iv
Managing impacts is typically an ongoing process requiring continuous improvement based on
learning from practice.
The organization is not required to provide a detailed description of lessons learned in relation
to each material topic. Instead, the organization can provide examples to show how it
incorporates lessons learned to manage impacts more successfully in the future.
For example, the organization can briefly describe lessons learned that have led to changes in
its policies or practices (e.g., training for workers, giving additional attention to the performance
of suppliers), or that have led to plans for changes that will manage impacts more successfully
in the future.
Lessons learned may be derived from the organization’s own processes (e.g., root cause
analysis), from its business relationships, or from stakeholder or expert feedback.
Guidance to 3-3-f
The organization can explain, for example, whether and how affected stakeholders have been
involved in determining an appropriate remedy for a negative impact or how stakeholder
feedback is used to assess the effectiveness of the actions taken.
24 GRI 3: Material Topics 2021