Disclosure 207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of

concerns related to tax
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. A description of the approach to stakeholder engagement and management of
stakeholder concerns related to tax, including:
i. the approach to engagement with tax authorities;
ii. the approach to public policy advocacy on tax;
iii. the processes for collecting and considering the views and concerns of
stakeholders, including external stakeholders.
Background
GUIDANCE
Organizations’ tax practices are of interest to various stakeholders. The approach an
organization takes to engaging with stakeholders has the potential to influence its reputation
and position of trust. This includes how the organization engages with tax authorities in the
development of tax systems, legislation, and administration.
Stakeholder engagement can enable the organization to understand evolving expectations
related to tax. It can give the organization insight into potential future regulatory changes and
enable the organization to better manage its risks and impacts.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-3-a-i
The approach to engagement with tax authorities can include participating in cooperative
compliance agreements, seeking active real-time audit, seeking clearance for all significant
transactions, engaging on tax risks, and seeking advance pricing agreements.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-3-a-ii
When reporting the approach to public policy advocacy on tax, the reporting organization can
describe:
• its lobbying activities related to tax;
• its stance on significant issues related to tax that it addresses in its public policy advocacy,
and any differences between its advocacy positions and its stated policies, goals, or other
public positions;
• whether it is a member of, or contributes to, any representative associations or committees
that participate in public policy advocacy on tax, including:
- the nature of this contribution;
- any differences between the organization’s stated policies, goals, or other public
positions on significant issues related to tax, and the positions of the representative
associations or committees.
Disclosure 207-3-a-ii is related to the requirements in GRI 415: Public Policy 2016. If the
organization has determined public policy to be a material topic and has reported information in
GRI 415 that covers the organization’s public policy advocacy on tax, the organization can provide
a reference to this information.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-3-a-iii
When reporting the processes for collecting and considering the views and concerns of
stakeholders, the organization can describe how the processes enable stakeholders to
participate in this engagement. The organization can also provide examples of how stakeholder
feedback has influenced the approach to tax, the tax strategy, or the tax practices of the
organization.
12 GRI 207: Tax 2019