Disclosure 207-4 Country-by-country reporting 12

Glossary 16
Bibliography 20
4 GRI 207: Tax 2019
Introduction
GRI 207: Tax 2019 contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their tax-related impacts, and
how they manage these impacts. The disclosures enable an organization to provide information on how it manages
tax, and information about its revenue, tax, and business activities on a country-by-country basis.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains three disclosures, which provide information about how the organization manages its tax-
related impacts.
• Section 2 contains one disclosure, which provides information about the organization’s tax-related impacts.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing
this Standard.
The rest of the Introduction section provides a background on the topic, an overview of the system of GRI Standards
and further information on using this Standard.
Background on the topic
This Standard addresses the topic of tax.
Taxes are important sources of government revenue and are central to the fiscal policy and macroeconomic stability
of countries.
They are acknowledged by the United Nations to play a vital role in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.1
They are also a key mechanism by which organizations contribute to the economies of the countries in which they
operate.
Taxes paid by an organization reflect that profitability depends on many factors external to the organization, including
access to workers, markets, public infrastructure and services, natural resources, and a public administration.
Organizations have an obligation to comply with tax legislation, and a responsibility to their stakeholders to meet
expectations of good tax practices. If organizations seek to minimize their tax obligation in a jurisdiction, they might
deprive the government of revenue. This could lead to reduced investment in public infrastructure and services,
increase in government debt, or shifting of the tax obligation onto other tax payers.
Perceptions of tax avoidance by an organization could also undermine tax compliance more broadly, by driving other
organizations to engage in aggressive tax planning based on the view that they might otherwise be at a competitive
disadvantage. This can lead to increasing costs associated with tax regulation and enforcement.
Public reporting on tax increases transparency and promotes trust and credibility in the tax practices of organizations
and in the tax systems. It enables stakeholders to make informed judgments about an organization’s tax positions.
Tax transparency also informs public debate and supports the development of socially desirable tax policy.
Country-by-country reporting
Country-by-country reporting involves the reporting of financial, economic, and tax-related information for each
jurisdiction in which an organization operates. This indicates the organization’s scale of activity and the contribution it
makes through tax in these jurisdictions.