Disclosure 207-4 Country-by-country reporting

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. All tax jurisdictions where the entities included in the organization’s audited
consolidated financial statements, or in the financial information filed on public record,
are resident for tax purposes.
b. For each tax jurisdiction reported in Disclosure 207-4-a:
i. Names of the resident entities;
ii. Primary activities of the organization;
iii. Number of employees, and the basis of calculation of this number;
iv. Revenues from third-party sales;
v. Revenues from intra-group transactions with other tax jurisdictions;
vi. Profit/loss before tax;
vii. Tangible assets other than cash and cash equivalents;
viii. Corporate income tax paid on a cash basis;
ix. Corporate income tax accrued on profit/loss;
x. Reasons for the difference between corporate income tax accrued on profit/loss
and the tax due if the statutory tax rate is applied to profit/loss before tax.
c. The time period covered by the information reported in Disclosure 207-4.
Compilation requirements
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 207-4, the reporting
organization shall report information for the time period covered by the most recent
audited consolidated financial statements or financial information filed on public
record. If information is not available for this time period, the organization may report
information for the time period covered by the audited consolidated financial
statements, or the financial information filed on public record, immediately preceding
the most recent ones.
2.2 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 207-4-b, the reporting
organization shall:
2.2.1 reconcile the data reported for Disclosures 207-4-b-iv, vi, vii, and viii with the
data stated in its audited consolidated financial statements, or the financial
information filed on public record, for the time period reported in Disclosure
207-4-c. Where the data reported does not reconcile with the audited
consolidated financial statements, or the financial information filed on public
record, the organization shall provide an explanation for this difference;
2.2.2 for Disclosure 207-4-b-ix, include corporate income tax accrued in the time
period reported in Disclosure 207-4-c and exclude deferred corporate income
tax and provisions for uncertain tax positions;
2.2.3 in cases where an entity is deemed not to be resident in any tax jurisdiction,
provide the information for this stateless entity separately.
2.3 The reporting organization should report the following additional information for each tax
RECOMMENDATIONS
jurisdiction reported in Disclosure 207-4-a:
2.3.1 Total employee remuneration;
2.3.2 Taxes withheld and paid on behalf of employees;
2.3.3 Taxes collected from customers on behalf of a tax authority;
2.3.4 Industry-related and other taxes or payments to governments;
2.3.5 Significant uncertain tax positions;
2.3.6 Balance of intra-company debt held by entities in the tax jurisdiction, and the
basis of calculation of the interest rate paid on the debt.
13 GRI 207: Tax 2019
Background
GUIDANCE
Country-by-country reporting is the reporting of financial, economic, and tax-related information
for each jurisdiction in which the organization operates.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-4-a
In the context of this Standard, tax jurisdictions are identified according to where the entities
included in the organization’s audited consolidated financial statements, or in the financial
information filed on public record, are resident for tax purposes. These entities include
permanent establishments and dormant entities.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-4-b
Unless otherwise stated, country-by-country information is to be reported at the level of tax
jurisdictions and not at the level of individual entities.
Number of employees, revenues, profit/loss before tax, and tangible assets other than cash and
cash equivalents are indicators of the organization’s scale of activity within a tax jurisdiction.
When considered in conjunction with the other required and recommended information, they
can inform assessments about the level of taxes being paid in a jurisdiction.
In addition to this information, the organization can report any other information relevant for
understanding the scale of its activity within a jurisdiction.
If the reporting organization cannot report all required information for all the tax jurisdictions
reported in Disclosure 207-4-a, it may use reasons for omission as set out in GRI 1: Foundation
2021. The organization is required to specify the requirement it cannot comply with, and to
provide a reason for omission and required explanation, as set out in GRI 1. See Requirement 6
in GRI 1 for more information on reasons for omission.
If complete reporting for a tax jurisdiction is not possible because the organization holds a
minority shareholding or is the non-operating joint venture partner in an entity, the organization
may provide ‘information unavailable / incomplete’ as the reason for omission and specify the
majority shareholder or operating partner.
The organization can also report any contextual information necessary to understand how data
has been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
Guidance for Disclosure 207-4-b-i