Disclosure 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Energy consumption outside of the organization, in joules or multiples.
b. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
c. Source of the conversion factors used.
Compilation requirements
2.3 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-2, the reporting
organization shall exclude energy consumption reported in Disclosure 302-1.
2.4 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-2, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.4.1 if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to
selecting them;
2.4.2 list energy consumption outside of the organization, with a breakdown by
upstream and downstream categories and activities.
Guidance for Disclosure 302-2
GUIDANCE
The reporting organization can identify energy consumption outside of the organization by
assessing whether an activity’s energy consumption:
• contributes significantly to the organization’s total anticipated energy consumption outside of
the organization;
• offers potential for reductions the organization can undertake or influence;
• contributes to climate change-related risks, such as financial, regulatory, supply chain,
product and customer, litigation, and reputational risks;
• is deemed material by stakeholders, such as customers, suppliers, investors, or civil
society;
• results from outsourced activities previously performed in-house, or that are typically
performed in-house by other organizations in the same sector;
• has been identified as significant for the organization’s sector;
• meets any additional criteria for determining relevance, developed by the organization or by
organizations in its sector.
The organization can use the following upstream and downstream categories and activities
from the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard’
for identifying relevant energy consumption outside of the organization (see reference [2] in the
Bibliography):
Upstream categories
1. Purchased goods and services
2. Capital goods
3. Fuel- and energy-related activities (not included in Disclosure 302-1)
4. Upstream transportation and distribution
5. Waste generated in operations
6. Business travel
7. Employee commuting
8. Upstream leased assets
Other upstream
Downstream categories
1. Downstream transportation and distribution
2. Processing of sold products
3. Use of sold products
4. End-of-life treatment of sold products
5. Downstream leased assets
12 GRI 302: Energy 2016
6. Franchises
7. Investments
Other downstream
For each of these categories and activities, the organization can calculate or estimate the
amount of energy consumed.
The organization can report energy consumption separately for non-renewable sources and
renewable sources.
Background
Energy consumption can occur outside an organization, i.e., throughout the organization’s
upstream and downstream activities associated with its operations.
This can include consumers’ use of products the organization sells, and the end-of-life
treatment of products.
Quantifying energy consumption outside of the organization can provide a basis for calculating
some of the relevant other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in Disclosure 305-3 of GRI 305:
Emissions 2016.
13 GRI 302: Energy 2016