Disclosure 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of
conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples.
b. Types of energy included in the reductions; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling,
steam, or all.
c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline,
including the rationale for choosing it.
d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
Compilation requirements
2.7 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-4, the reporting
organization shall:
2.7.1 exclude reductions resulting from reduced production capacity or
outsourcing;
2.7.2 describe whether energy reduction is estimated, modeled, or sourced from
direct measurements. If estimation or modeling is used, the organization shall
disclose the methods used.
2.8 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-4, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should, if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to
selecting them.
Guidance for Disclosure 302-4
GUIDANCE
The reporting organization can prioritize disclosing reduction initiatives that were implemented
in the reporting period, and that have the potential to contribute significantly to reductions. The
organization can describe reduction initiatives and their targets when reporting how it manages
this topic.
Reduction initiatives can include:
• process redesign;
• conversion and retrofitting of equipment;
• changes in behavior;
• operational changes.
The organization can report reductions in energy consumption by combining energy types, or
separately for fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam.
The organization can also provide a breakdown of reductions in energy consumption by
individual initiatives or groups of initiatives.
15 GRI 302: Energy 2016
Disclosure 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products
and services
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Reductions in energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the
reporting period, in joules or multiples.
b. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline,
including the rationale for choosing it.
c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used.
2.9 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-5, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.9.1 if subject to different standards and methodologies, describe the approach to
selecting them;
2.9.2 refer to industry use standards to obtain this information, where available (such
as fuel consumption of cars for 100 km at 90 km/h).
Guidance for Disclosure 302-5
GUIDANCE
Use-oriented figures can include, for example, the energy requirements of a car or a computer.
Consumption patterns can include, for example, 10 percent less energy use per 100 km
travelled or per time unit (hour, average working day).
16 GRI 302: Energy 2016