Disclosure 303-4 Water discharge

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total water discharge to all areas in megaliters, and a breakdown of this total by the
following types of destination, if applicable:
i. Surface water;
ii. Groundwater;
iii. Seawater;
iv. Third-party water, and the volume of this total sent for use to other organizations, if
applicable.
b. A breakdown of total water discharge to all areas in megaliters by the following
categories:
i. Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids);
ii. Other water (>1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids).
c. Total water discharge to all areas with water stress in megaliters, and a breakdown of
this total by the following categories:
i. Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids);
ii. Other water (>1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids).
d. Priority substances of concern for which discharges are treated, including:
i. how priority substances of concern were defined, and any international standard,
authoritative list, or criteria used;
ii. the approach for setting discharge limits for priority substances of concern;
iii. number of incidents of non-compliance with discharge limits.
e. Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled,
such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
Compilation requirements
2.3 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 303-4, the reporting
organization shall use publicly available and credible tools and methodologies for
assessing water stress in an area.
2.4 The reporting organization should report the following additional information:
RECOMMENDATIONS
2.4.1 The number of occasions on which discharge limits were exceeded;
2.4.2 A breakdown of total water discharge to all areas in megaliters by level of
treatment, and how the treatment levels were determined;
2.4.3 Percentage of suppliers with significant water-related impacts from water
discharge that have set minimum standards for the quality of their effluent
discharge.
Background
GUIDANCE
Quantifying the volume of water discharge can help an organization understand its negative
impacts on the receiving waterbody.
The relationship between water discharge and negative impacts is not linear. An increase in the
total volume of water discharge does not necessarily correspond to greater negative impacts,
since these impacts depend on the quality of the water discharge and the sensitivity of the
receiving waterbody. An organization with a high volume of water discharge, but also a high level
of treatment and strict quality standards, can have positive impacts on the receiving waterbody.
To learn more about locations where water-related impacts might be significant, and where
actions to address them are most needed, the reporting organization can also report the
information requested in Disclosure 303-4 for each facility in areas with water stress.
14 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
Guidance for Disclosure 303-4
For an example of how to present information on requirements in Disclosure 303-4, see Table
1.
See Guidance for Disclosure 303-3-b for how to assess areas with water stress.
Guidance for Disclosure 303-4-a-iv
An example of third-party water discharge is when an organization sends water and effluents to
other organizations for use. In these instances, the organization is required to report the volume
of this water discharge separately.
Guidance for Disclosures 303-4-b and 303-4-c
The organization is required to provide a breakdown of the water discharged to all areas and to
all areas with water stress by the categories freshwater and other water. Other water constitutes
any water that has a concentration of total dissolved solids higher than 1,000 mg/L. Other water
is therefore all water that does not fall into the freshwater category.
The organization is, at a minimum, required to report a figure for other water discharged. The
organization can additionally report any further breakdowns for other water discharge based on
its water management and reporting practices, as long as it explains the approach used to
define water quality using Disclosure 303-4-e. The organization can report additional
information on how water quality has been determined, including consideration of the potential
value of water to its users, as well as any absolute physical and/or chemical criteria used.
Guidance for Disclosure 303-4-d
In the context of this Standard, substances of concern are those that cause irreversible damage
to the waterbody, ecosystem, or human health.
Discharge limits for substances of concern can be based on regulation and/or other factors
determined by an organization. In countries where no regulations for discharge limits are
available, the organization can develop its own discharge limits.
‘Discharge consent’ is the permission granted to an organization, allowing it to discharge a set
amount of a substance. The organization can report any unauthorized discharges that exceed
these limits using Disclosure 303-4-d. The organization can also describe any plans to reduce
unauthorized discharges in the future.
Guidance for clause 2.4.2
Reporting water discharge by level of treatment can provide insight into the effort an organization
is making to improve the quality of its water discharge. When reporting how the treatment levels
were determined, the organization is expected to include the reasons why a certain level of
treatment was set.
The level of treatment can be reported for any water or effluents at the point of discharge,
whether treated by the organization onsite or sent to a third party for treatment.
Water treatment involves physical, chemical or biological processes that improve water quality
by removing solids, pollutants, and organic matter from water and effluents. Minimum
requirements for treatment might be specified in national, state, or local legislation; however, the
organization is expected to consider its overall water discharge impacts and the needs of other
water users in setting treatment levels.
The organization can break down its water discharge by the following treatment levels:
• Primary treatment, which aims to remove solid substances that settle or float on the water
surface;
• Secondary treatment, which aims to remove substances and materials that have remained
in the water, or are dissolved or suspended in it;
• Tertiary treatment, which aims to upgrade water to a higher level of quality before it is
discharged. It includes processes that remove, for example, heavy metals, nitrogen, and
phosphorus.
An organization might withdraw and discharge water of good quality that does not require
15 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
treatment. If so, the organization can explain this in its reported information.
Guidance for clause 2.4.3
Minimum standards are those that go beyond regulatory requirements in controlling the quality
of effluent discharge. For more information on water quality standards, see Disclosure 303-2 in