Disclosure 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 12

Glossary 13
Bibliography 14
4 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Introduction
A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards are
designed to be used by organizations to report about their impacts on the economy, the environment, and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be downloaded at
www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using the GRI Standards. It has essential information on how to use and
reference the Standards.
An organization then selects from the set of topic-specific GRI Standards for reporting on its material topics. These
Standards are organized into three series: 200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and 400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to that topic, and is designed to be used together with GRI 103:
Management Approach, which is used to report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste is a topic-specific GRI Standard in the 300 series (Environmental topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims
There are two basic approaches for using the GRI Standards. For each way of using the Standards there is a
corresponding claim, or statement of use, which an organization is required to include in any published materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare a sustainability report that is in accordance with the Standards.
There are two options for preparing a report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive), depending on the extent of
disclosures included in the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance with the GRI Standards uses this Standard, GRI 306: Effluents and
Waste, if this is one of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content, can also be used to report specific information, without preparing
a report in accordance with the Standards. Any published materials that use the GRI Standards in this way are to
include a ‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more information on how to use the GRI Standards, and the specific claims
that organizations are required to include in any published materials.
C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions. In the text, requirements are presented in bold font and indicated
with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to be read in the context of recommendations and guidance; however, an
organization is not required to comply with recommendations or guidance in order to claim that a report has been
prepared in accordance with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the text,
the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background information, explanations and examples to help organizations better
understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
5 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the environmental dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s impacts
on living and non-living natural systems, including land, air, water, and ecosystems.
GRI 306 addresses the topic of effluents and waste. This includes water discharges; the generation, treatment and
disposal of waste; and spills of chemicals, oils, fuels, and other substances.
The impacts of water discharges vary depending on the quantity, quality, and destination of the discharge. The
unmanaged discharge of effluents with a high chemical or nutrient load (principally nitrogen, phosphorous, or
potassium) can affect aquatic habitats, the quality of an available water supply, and an organization’s relationship with
communities and other water users.
The generation, treatment and disposal of waste – including its improper transportation – can also pose harm to
human health and the environment. This is of particular concern if waste is transported to countries lacking the
infrastructure and regulations to handle it.
Spills of chemicals, oils, and fuels, among other substances, can potentially affect soil, water, air, biodiversity, and
human health.
These concepts are covered by the Basel and Ramsar Conventions, and in key instruments of the International
Maritime Organization: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information about an organization’s impacts related to effluents and
waste, and how it manages these impacts.
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste
6 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste
This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-specific disclosures. These are set out
in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination
• Disclosure 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method
• Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills
• Disclosure 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste
• Disclosure 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff
1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic, the
associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its report
has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach for every
material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
7 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
1.1 The reporting organization shall report its management approach for effluents and waste
REQUIREMENTS
using GRI 103: Management Approach.
When reporting its management approach for effluents and waste, the reporting organization
GUIDANCE
can also disclose expenditures on:
• treatment and disposal of waste;
• clean-up costs, including costs for remediation of spills as specified in Disclosure 306-3.