Disclosure 306-1 Water discharge by quality and

destination
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by:
i. destination;
ii. quality of the water, including treatment method;
iii. whether the water was reused by another organization.
b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
Compilation requirements
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 306-1, the reporting organization
shall:
2.1.1 exclude collected rainwater and domestic sewage from the volume of planned and
unplanned water discharges;
2.1.2 if it does not have a meter to measure water discharges, estimate the volume of
planned and unplanned water discharges by subtracting the approximate volume
consumed on-site from the volume withdrawn as specified in Disclosure 303-1 of GRI
303: Water.
When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 306-1, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.2.1 if it discharges effluents or process water, report water quality in terms of total volumes of
effluent using standard effluent parameters, such as Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) or Total
Suspended Solids (TSS);
2.2.2 select parameters that are consistent with those used in the organization’s sector.
Guidance for Disclosure 306-1
GUIDANCE
In the context of this Standard, ‘water discharge’ includes water effluents discharged over the
course of the reporting period. These effluents can be discharged to subsurface waters, surface
waters, sewers that lead to rivers, oceans, lakes, wetlands, treatment facilities, and ground
water, either:
• through a defined discharge point (point source discharge);
• over land in a dispersed or undefined manner (non-point source discharge);
• as wastewater removed from the organization via truck.
Discharge of collected rainwater and domestic sewage is not considered to be water discharge.
Guidance for clause 2.2
The specific choice of water quality parameters can vary depending on the organization’s
products, services, and operations.
Water quality metrics can vary depending on national or regional regulations.
9 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016