Disclosure 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and

safety management system
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. If the organization has implemented an occupational health and safety management
system based on legal requirements and/or recognized standards/guidelines:
i. the number and percentage of all employees and workers who are not employees
but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization, who are
covered by such a system;
ii. the number and percentage of all employees and workers who are not employees
but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization, who are
covered by such a system that has been internally audited;
iii. the number and percentage of all employees and workers who are not employees
but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization, who are
covered by such a system that has been audited or certified by an external party.
b. Whether and, if so, why any workers have been excluded from this disclosure, including
the types of worker excluded.
c. Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled,
such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
Background
GUIDANCE
Occupational health and safety management systems can serve as an effective approach to
managing and continually eliminating hazards and minimizing risks. It is a systems-based
approach that seeks to integrate occupational health and safety management into overall
business processes. A system typically moves through a ‘plan-do-check-act’ cycle, promoting
leadership and practice through meaningful consultation and participation of workers from all
job levels in the organization.
A systems-based approach, which encompasses fully integrated processes, can be a
significant advancement over an approach that considers hazard identification, risk
assessment, and incident investigation as isolated activities. Focusing on system deficiencies
can enable an organization to identify deficiencies in its overall management of occupational
health and safety; address resources, policy, and operational controls; and ensure continual
improvement.
Guidance for Disclosure 403-8
This disclosure indicates what proportion of an organization’s employees, and workers who are
not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization, are covered
by an occupational health and safety management system based on legal requirements and/or
recognized standards/guidelines. The list of legal requirements and/or recognized
standards/guidelines used by the reporting organization in its occupational health and safety
management system are reported using Disclosures 403-1-a-i and 403-1-a-ii in the Topic
management disclosures section.
If not all workers are covered by the occupational health and safety management system, the
organization can report whether any of the workers not covered are at high risk of work-related
injury or ill health.
In addition to the information required by this disclosure, the organization can report the number
and percentage of sites covered by an occupational health and safety management system
based on legal requirements and/or recognized standards/guidelines.
The organization can also describe:
• the approach used for internal audits (e.g., whether they are carried out following an
internally-developed audit standard or a recognized audit standard, what is the qualification
20 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
of the auditors);
• whether any processes or functions have been excluded from the scope of the audit or
certification, and how occupational health and safety performance is being monitored in
those areas;
• the audit or certification standard used.
Audits by external parties may include both second-party and third-party audits. Second-party
audits are usually performed by customers or others on behalf of customers, or by any other
external parties that have a formal interest in the organization. Third-party audits are performed
by independent organizations such as registrars (i.e., certification bodies) or regulators.
Guidance for Disclosure 403-8-b
Types of worker can be based on criteria such as full-time, part-time, non-guaranteed hours,
permanent or temporary basis, type or degree of control (e.g., control of work or workplace, sole
or shared control), and location, among others.
21 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018