Disclosure 403-10 Work-related ill health 25

Glossary 27
Bibliography 34
4 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
Introduction
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their
occupational health and safety-related impacts, and how they manage these impacts.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains seven disclosures, which provide information about how the organization manages its
occupational health and safety-related impacts.
• Section 2 contains three disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s occupational health and
safety-related impacts.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing
this Standard.
The rest of the Introduction section provides a background on the topic, an overview of the system of GRI Standards
and further information on using this Standard.
Background on the topic
This Standard addresses the topic of occupational health and safety.
Healthy and safe work conditions are recognized as a human right and addressed in authoritative intergovernmental
instruments, including those of the International Labour Organization (ILO), the Organisation for Economic Co-
operation and Development (OECD), and the World Health Organization (WHO): see the Bibliography.
Healthy and safe work conditions are also a target of the Sustainable Development Goals, adopted by the United
Nations (UN) as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.1
Healthy and safe work conditions involve both prevention of physical and mental harm, and promotion of workers’
health.
Prevention of harm and promotion of health require an organization to demonstrate commitment to workers' health
and safety. They also require the organization to engage workers in the development, implementation, and
performance evaluation of an occupational health and safety policy, management system and programs that are
appropriate to the organization’s size and activities.
It is essential that workers are consulted in the development of an organization’s occupational health and safety
policy, and participate in the processes necessary to plan, support, operate, and continually evaluate the effectiveness
of the occupational health and safety management system and programs.
Hazard identification and risk assessment, worker training, and incident identification and investigation are also key to
planning, supporting, operating, and evaluating the occupational health and safety management system.
In addition to preventing harm, an organization can promote workers’ health by offering healthcare services or
voluntary health promotion services and programs, which, for example, help workers improve their diet or quit
smoking. These additional services and programs cannot serve as a substitute for occupational health and safety
programs, services and systems that prevent harm and protect workers from work-related injuries and ill health.
All services and programs that aim to prevent harm and promote workers’ health are expected to respect workers’
right to privacy. Organizations are expected not to use workers' participation in such services and programs, or the
health data derived therefrom, as criteria for their decisions regarding employment or engagement of workers,
including termination, demotion, promotion or offering of prospects, compensation, or any other favorable or
unfavorable treatment.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
1 See Target 8.8: ‘Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular
women migrants, and those in precarious employment’, within Goal 8: ‘Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and
productive employment and decent work for all’. Other Sustainable Development Goals are also relevant to the topic of occupational health and
safety, for example Goal 3: ‘Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages’.
5 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
This Standard can be used by any organization – regardless of size, type, sector, geographic location, or reporting
experience – to report information about its occupational health and safety-related impacts.
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report the following disclosures if it has
determined occupational health and safety to be a material topic:
6 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
• Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this Standard);
• Any disclosures from this Topic Standard that are relevant to the organization’s occupational health and safety-
related impacts (Disclosure 403-1 through Disclosure 403-10).
See Requirements 4 and 5 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
Reasons for omission are permitted for these disclosures.
If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure (e.g., because the required
information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), the organization is required to specify the disclosure or the
requirement it cannot comply with, and provide a reason for omission together with an explanation in the GRI content
index. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be the
case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
item does not exist.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
Requirements, guidance and defined terms
The following apply throughout this Standard:
Requirements are presented in bold font and indicated by the word 'shall'. An organization must comply with
requirements to report in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Requirements may be accompanied by guidance.
Guidance includes background information, explanations, and examples to help the organization better understand
the requirements. The organization is not required to comply with guidance.
The Standards may also include recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is
encouraged but not required.
The word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation, and the word ‘can’ indicates a possibility or option.
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
Scope of ‘workers’ in this Standard
7 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
Scope of ‘workers’ in this Standard
In the context of the GRI Standards, the term ‘worker’ is defined as a person that performs work. Some GRI Standards
specify the use of a particular subset of workers.
This Standard covers the following subset of workers, for whose occupational health and safety an organization is
expected to be responsible:
• All workers who are employees (i.e., those workers who are in an employment relationship with the organization
according to national law or practice);
• All workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization;
• All workers who are not employees and whose work and workplace are not controlled by the organization, but the
organization’s operations, products, or services are directly linked to significant occupational health and safety
impacts on those workers by its business relationships.
See Table 1 for examples of employees and workers who are not employees according to the criteria of ‘control of
work’ and ‘control of workplace’.
When the reporting organization does not have data available for all the workers specified in a disclosure, the
organization is required to identify the types of worker excluded from the disclosures and explain why they have been
excluded. See also Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for requirements on reasons for omission.
Workers who are employees
All employees are to be included by the organization in its reported data, regardless of whether the organization
controls their work and/or workplace.