Disclosure 403-9 Work-related injuries

The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. For all employees:
i. The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury;
ii. The number and rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding
fatalities);
iii. The number and rate of recordable work-related injuries;
iv. The main types of work-related injury;
v. The number of hours worked.
b. For all workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled
by the organization:
i. The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury;
ii. The number and rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding
fatalities);
iii. The number and rate of recordable work-related injuries;
iv. The main types of work-related injury;
v. The number of hours worked.
c. The work-related hazards that pose a risk of high-consequence injury, including:
i. how these hazards have been determined;
ii. which of these hazards have caused or contributed to high-consequence injuries
during the reporting period;
iii. actions taken or underway to eliminate these hazards and minimize risks using
the hierarchy of controls.
d. Any actions taken or underway to eliminate other work-related hazards and minimize
risks using the hierarchy of controls.
e. Whether the rates have been calculated based on 200,000 or 1,000,000 hours worked.
f. Whether and, if so, why any workers have been excluded from this disclosure, including
the types of worker excluded.
g. Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled,
such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
Compilation requirements
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 403-9, the reporting
organization shall:
2.1.1 exclude fatalities in the calculation of the number and rate of high-
consequence work-related injuries;
2.1.2 include fatalities as a result of work-related injury in the calculation of the
number and rate of recordable work-related injuries;
2.1.3 include injuries as a result of commuting incidents only where the transport
has been organized by the organization;
2.1.4 calculate the rates based on either 200,000 or 1,000,000 hours worked, using
the following formulas:
Number of fatalities as a result
Rate of fatalities as a of work-related injury
result of work-related = ______________________ x [200,000 or
injury
1,000,000]
Number of hours worked
22 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
Number of high-consequence
work-related injuries
Rate of high-consequence
(excluding fatalities)
work-related injuries
(excluding fatalities) = ______________________ x [200,000 or
1,000,000]
Number of hours worked
Number of recordable work-
related injuries
Rate of recordable work-
related injuries = ______________________ x [200,000 or
1,000,000]
Number of hours worked
2.2 The reporting organization should report the following additional information:
RECOMMENDATIONS
2.2.1 If the numbers and rates reported are significantly higher for certain types of
injury, countries, business lines, or workers’ demographics (e.g., sex, gender,
migrant status, age, or worker type), a breakdown of these data;
2.2.2 A breakdown of the number of recordable work-related injuries by type of incident;
2.2.3 If chemical hazards have been identified in Disclosure 403-9-c, a list of the
chemicals;
2.2.4 The number of high-potential work-related incidents identified;
2.2.5 The number of close calls identified.
Guidance for Disclosure 403-9
GUIDANCE
This disclosure covers work-related injuries. Data on work-related injuries are a measure of the
extent of harm suffered by workers; they are not a measure of safety.
An increase in the number or rate of reported incidents does not necessarily mean that there
have been a greater number of incidents than before; it can indicate an improvement in the
recording and reporting of incidents.
If an increase in the number or rate of reported incidents is the result of the organization’s
actions to improve the reporting and recording of fatalities, injuries, and ill health, or its actions
to expand the scope of its management system to cover more workers or workplaces, the
reporting organization can explain this and report on these actions and their results.
Types of work-related injury can include death, amputation of a limb, laceration, fracture, hernia,
burns, loss of consciousness, and paralysis, among others.
In the context of this Standard, work-related musculoskeletal disorders are covered under ill
health (and not injuries) and are to be reported using Disclosure 403-10. If the organization
operates in a jurisdiction where worker compensation systems classify musculoskeletal
disorders as injuries, the organization can explain this and report these disorders using
Disclosure 403-9. See references [5] and [16] in the Bibliography for a list of musculoskeletal
disorders.
Injuries involving members of the public as a result of a work-related incident are not included in
this disclosure, but the organization can report this information separately. For example, the
organization can report incidents where a vehicle driven by a worker causes the deaths of other
road users or incidents where visitors are injured during their visit to the organization’s
workplace.
Guidance for reporting on high-consequence work-related injuries
As per the definition of recordable work-related injury, the organization is required to report all
work-related injuries as part of the ‘number and rate of recordable work-related injuries’. In
addition, the organization is required to separately report high-consequence work- related
injuries, with a breakdown by:
• fatalities, to be reported using Disclosures 403-9-a-i and 403-9-b-i.
• other injuries from which the worker cannot recover (e.g., amputation of a limb), or does not
or is not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health status within 6 months (e.g., fracture
23 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
with complications), to be reported using Disclosures 403-9-a-ii and 403-9-b-ii.
The definition of ‘high-consequence work-related injury’ uses ‘recovery time’, instead of ‘lost
time’, as the criterion for determining the severity of an injury. Lost time is an indicator of the loss
of productivity for an organization as a result of a work-related injury; it does not necessarily
indicate the extent of harm suffered by a worker.
‘Recovery time’, in contrast, refers to the time needed for a worker to recover fully to pre-injury
health status; it does not refer to the time needed for a worker to return to work. In some cases,
a worker might return to work before full recovery.
In addition to reporting information on high-consequence work-related injuries based on
recovery time as required by this disclosure, the organization can also report the number and
rate of work-related injuries that resulted in lost-workday cases, the average number of lost days
per lost-workday case, the number of lost workdays, and the absentee rate.
Guidance for Disclosure 403-9-c
This disclosure covers work-related hazards that pose a risk of high-consequence injury if not
controlled, even when there are control measures in place. The hazards might have been
identified proactively through risk assessment, or reactively as a result of either a high-potential
incident or a high-consequence injury.
Examples of work-related hazards causing or contributing to high-consequence injuries include
excessive workload demands, tripping hazards, or exposure to flammable materials.
If the identified work-related hazards vary significantly across different locations, the organization
may group or disaggregate these by relevant categories, such as by geographical area or
business line. Similarly, if there are a high number of hazards, the organization may group or
categorize them to facilitate reporting.
When reporting how it has determined which work-related hazards pose a risk of high-
consequence injury using Disclosure 403-9-c-i, the organization can describe the criteria or
threshold used to determine which hazards pose such a risk and which do not. The processes
to identify hazards and assess risks, and to apply the hierarchy of controls, are reported using